=== Lecture_1_transcript_(actual_2022_lec).txt ===
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
And just remind me to turn it on if I pause it during a break.
Okay, So
this slide here talks about evolution. That's chapter one
i'm going to talk almost nothing about nothing. So if you want to skim something in the course, skim that you'll have one or two questions on the whole,
but it's a good thing to skin like if you're reading on the subway just to get a flavor of where we sit as humans in the big picture of the earth, right
this one Here,
we're going to talk about a little bit in this course.
I'm gonna make it big for a second.
So if you can take a look at this quickly, does anyone notice
anything odd about the scans on the
you're left compared to the ones on the right.
It's not you. It's
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:01:00
sharing your screen.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:01:03
Oh, yeah, yeah. Otherwise it's just looking at the black screen.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:01:12
Okay, Thanks, Jay. That's why Tas are here,
and the Tas are here for you guys to help you through your course, help you through getting good marks,
so use them early. They work ten hours per week. Is that the like routine, or whatever
uh and they never will work ten hours this week or next week, or the week after
they'll jam it all when they mark your tests. Right? So it'd be great to use them. Well,
it's a relaxed time. So again, with anything weird on the left side.
Yeah. So that scan there is missing the cerebellum.
So anyone know what the function of the serve element is textbook.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:01:55
Yeah.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:01:56
And
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:01:58
balance movement, Yeah. Kind of fixing or training the errors we make when we're balancing it.
And you think like that picture there is of an adult.
So do you think this adult person, Ms. Cerebello, who theoretically, the function of it is to two more movements. Do you think this person walks and moves around space?
There he is.
So there's a couple of nose, so that that's theoretically what the textbook says.
You don't get any moves. Maybe you get any learning. You don't get any training versus just like a in real
actual fact. This was a paper I think, about
about ten years ago, and this person all they did was behaviorally. They had slower development of movement, slower development of language,
Certain parts of the brain recovered the function of what it should be
right. And this person you. If you. If this person was in the class, we couldn't tell who it is.
So. The brain has power within the neural matrix when there's a loss of function because of structure. Alright, So that's cool thing.
Now, this this one essentially
so, this slide here.
It describes how brain areas are connected.
And So these little pathways, these little like that, that that orange and yellow one in your A is showing some sort of activation, something happening as her part of the brain.
And then what's cool is that B shows network activity across these blue lines. So these blue lines are statistical maps, or a statistical test done with data from an Mri to be able to say, there's a probability of
blue, the the red stuff connected to the yellow stuff combined,
and this is super powerful. So imagine that slide. I showed you earlier with the person's brain missing a cerebellum. All those connections that would normally be there to two more movements. We're missing.
You had connections and still function in the day you're done in our own. That person who missed the cerebellum.
I don't know why she went into the scanner, but she went in for some reason, and it wasn't that she had a car accident or she was bleeding. It was just like pretty standard
person in China, that's all I remember.
So the rest of the cool stuff.
What I showed you already so far is the
things I sort of do in the lab.
So I do functional imaging in our lab. I do track tracing a little bit. I've done
the evolution stuff. I've worked with different animal models to try to understand how neurons are doing things related to behavior.
Now, the last thing here is where we're getting close. I didn't even show you a neuron dead.
But the last one is talking about a reflex.
You withdraw your foot right up, paying withdrawal,
and it's super simple. It's a few neurons theoretically in a loop, that you feel something. You pull your from back where you you something super hot, and you pull your hand away.
This is a reflex that's almost in this final part. You don't have to know that you touch something on You don't have to know You stepped on an attack or a scorpion, or something else
do is pull your filling right? So it's a reflex. It's done, and potentially only in the spinal,
and only later. So it has to be fast, right, because you want to save your your back, your hand, or your foot.
So we're going to talk a little bit about that. Um. And what I want to do before we move on
is, does anyone know what the minimum amount of neurons in the range you would.
So it's not one for sure.
It could be two, three, or four. Yeah.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:06:19
Oh, I'm. Good.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:06:20
One hundred. Okay, that's a good
suggestion on great death.
Uh, do you have a chalk in here? Probably not.
I'll take it now.
Hundred. Okay. So
if you're connected,
say to do
so, i'm looking at that, I don't know what that is, a proper protector or something in the back of the room at the top
some camera subscribe to that your tasks and check on my
teaching skills, or whatever right. So so there's something back there. The light has to come from one of these lights. Bounce off that come into my retina.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:06:55
It has lots of connections within it.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:06:58
Then out to a lot of
and to the visual cortex,
then to some object areas. You're probably way over one hundred
to to visually recognize something in the room. So if i'm looking at a face like Jade's face, I know him from like four years or something like that. So I have memories linked to him.
That's probably like the of the thousands of them
right, and that process might take me somewhere between three hundred to maybe half a second to know that that person is J. And be able to say,
All right, So you're pretty close for a normal behavior. That's great. I'm gonna tell you. It's a little less than a hundred.
You want a gas.
Okay? So i'm. I'm gonna have to do fifty. We'll do this as a scale here,
right? So this is fifty,
and there's probably things that are fifty neurons. I don't know.
The only thing I do know is they're a reflex. That's only three
only three neurons.
I'm gonna demo it now. So So everyone look at their finger.
Look at your fingerprint. Pay attention to it and move it around the world
and try to follow it and pay attention to the figure
and move it faster now like this,
So can you see your fingerprints
walk
that it's too fast? Yeah,
Because for fifty neurons or one hundred
you have to have these neurons connected
together,
So it costs a loop, but there's like fifty of them in here. So forty, something more
right? So you have to have fifty neurons
each neuron. What actual potential takes. How long you want to know that you probably don't know it takes four milliseconds. So
So if you do the map four four milliseconds times fifty
right. It's two hundred.
That's two hundred milliseconds.
So we're moving our finger trying to recognize the fingerprints. Can't do it. It's impossible,
because it's just too fast, like you said
so. Now look at your finger and move your head
around.
Don't understand Your Mugger had the same velocity and speed. You were moving your head finger before.
Can you do that? Can you see your fingerprint the whole time?
That's an extended on one point.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:09:39
Yeah, where
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:09:44
we're looking at states a lot of times.
Yeah. Totally. Oh, perfect. That's what it is.
So So you have a vesicular system. So I don't want to try to draw it. But there's these three kind of canals buried in your inner ear,
and there it's the It's a cranial nerve that sends the neuron from this
to an intern or on.
And then to
this is the third cranial nerve sends it to the muscle.
Oh, I missed one. Yeah.
So you have one neuron, two and three.
And so now, if you do, the math
three times four is twelve,
right? And this three neuron arc is called the vestibular ocular reflex.
And So this is like the first behavior you guys have learned orally controlled behavior.
Oh, Chris Taylor,
this particular ocular reference. Yeah,
you are.
So this is like
a
You don't you don't. You don't have to walk, probably to like Christmas. I probably have to walk to my main street
to give you the same scale of when you're on the right
in all the networks. Right? So
So this is kind of like the cheat sheet.
Then what i'm gonna do for a second here.
So
so I told you about this. We're going to talk about basic things. The first third of the course is really to teach you what neurons are, how they connected, how they fire, where they might reside in different networks.
And then the next thing is to talk about the senses right? How we taken things to the world into our brain and then analyze this and then act in the world.
And these are all the basic super basic behaviors right?
You already look at the two Tas um. Did we separate by Marx or anything yet? No, okay. We'll do that. Maybe we'll split half the class next week by if you're a to like n you go talk to one person, another person, so that it's broken up a little bit.
I'm here every day Monday to Friday,
please. If you want to have any questions about the course, either email the tas you're assigned to or me and come talk about it. I'm usually here before class, but it looked like the class before is always going to be laid
all right. So maybe when we we're in we can talk about stuff if you have time.
Now, what I can't do is make you study. You have to learn what vor is. You have to learn and read what a neuron is, what the components are. That's your job, you know. Do the best you can. I'm going to put all the stuff that we talk about online. I had a lot of extra stuff on there online. Um, just go at it.
The stuff that we do with the publishers website. The launch pad is very useful. It's almost mindless. But you still learn.
So it's pretty good.
Okay, i'm gonna post the lectures like I did. Um, i'm gonna usually post them with not black backgrounds, so you can print them up If there's someone who wants to print up and just like right notes on this. You're welcome to do that.
So yawning, What is this behavior? Anyone know why we on
when you're bored? Yeah,
yeah, that could be it. So so i'll gonna write this down.
It's fifteen hours.
So o two more oxygen,
perhaps
just a long time ago.
I'm not. I'm not heard that one yet. But maybe that's That's why I don't setting This
I don't know. Cool down.
You're right.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:14:28
I'm older
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:14:30
and he played it for something seriously.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:14:33
That's cool. That's cool.
I was going to add on to that. I kind of you through this kind of like awesome
I've got for a train where it's a smoke.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:14:42
You
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:14:44
all right. I like I like it
so I like this.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:14:49
So,
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:14:58
hey, anyone else,
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:15:06
Tom's here to,
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:15:10
but that is a separate one. It contains yon
anyone else. You already raised your hand so many times,
which is great.
Uh: yeah, the Red Shirt there.
Yeah, it could be just a reflex. Yeah.
So so just before last day,
if you want to know more, there's a paper where there's a
a podcast I just posted. That was from two thousand and eight where someone in the Uk
studied this in chimpanzees.
So you said contagious yawning, Is it contagious across species?
It is Yeah. And so this behavior is can be induced
in harsh
through vision, of course, through sound, because I've been on the phone with someone in the past, and they yawn and you can yawn without even seeing them. So
right. So this behavior is somehow linked into our genome right by my kid here yawn before he even ever like was supposed to be at all right. So the neural network is set up in such a way.
There's actually a society of studying yawning if you wanted to search it. It's a group in Paris, France, and this group ends up
talking about.
You get certain brain stem damage. You can yawn too much, or you can lose the
the behavior beyond it. So it's It's nearly controlled for sure. So, but no one studies it, and maybe because a lot of very few people study it.
It doesn't mean it's not important,
right? It just doesn't like a No One's studying this. Maybe because you can't make a million dollar blockbuster drug
right to figure this out right like five is just not going to do this. They're gonna jump on doing kovat vaccines for sure, right? Which they did. But so so this is cool.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:17:21
It's one.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:17:24
It's this
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:17:25
to get you on.
Yeah, yeah, I don't know about this like in the from development. But this this group in Paris I read a news blog on an article, and they had patients who can't yon or canyon once they get brain stem.
So somewhere within that circuit you can turn it on or off by get
right. So like. If this was the yawning circuit instead of an eye movement circuit
right there might be. Of course there's more neurons, but if you damage one of them, then the behavior goes away.
So it is narrowly controlled, which is super cool.
Ah, anyone else.
That's great. Yeah, I love this. I I want to have a big discussion during my class, my dream class I had once in my life where we got stuck on the one slide, and we talked for like almost three hours, on
which was great, it was so good.
So Yeah, there's other theories that it's not so much the ideas here. These are it's that you're starting to become a scientist. You're thinking you're making hypothesis in your head what it could be. And then you're listening to the plausible solutions. Right?
So let's go to the next one. This is another puzzle. I learned about this disease. It's called hemispatial.
From this guy i'm salvin tornado, and he's a broth in Houston, and he's the University of the royal family.
It's a great scientist.
He got me interested in neglect, but he got me interested in
really science. When I was in, when I, in one thousand nine hundred and ninety, two ninety three when he was here on Sabbatical. And what penny spatial neglect is. So this drawing here on the top is a drawing or a self-portrait of an artist after he had damage to his brain from a stroke.
Right? This is a sometime after self-port.
This is a little time after, and this is even later, right? And anyone notice anything interesting about these pictures?
So who was that?
They get more detailed? Yeah, anything else?
No, I think you did separate ones, even though it kind of looks like that in some way. There is a lot of overlap within the first one to the last one. Yeah
to her
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:20:04
it shows progression.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:20:08
Yeah, yeah, there's a lot of like recovery of function after a time. Yeah.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:20:13
Ah, anyone else.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:20:17
It's more colorful. Yeah, that's true,
like the first one right side, and then
so. So the cool thing about this syndrome is
so. The idea of neglect is, you're neglecting part of space.
So some of these patients, not this one in particular, and I've never met a person with hemispatial neglect in my life.
They're very rare. I think they're way less than like one percent, because I've met a lot of people with Parkinson's, and that's one percent of the population,
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:20:51
all right. So
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:20:53
um! But what happens in this is there's damage to some part of the brain, and wherever we cold space that module is damage, just like I was telling you about. If there's damage to a network related to yawning, it can be turned off or on, so you can make it go
more or less.
In this case it's being a squishing of space. So how you perceive space. So everyone here perceives space fully, and and you can pay attention to this part of the world without looking at it. You know it's there, and these people, their brain gets damaged, and so it gets squished, and so their whole world is just this.
I don't know if that means that
what they perceive, or what they draw out is all they perceive.
We don't know it could, but we know it's not visual, so the persons don't have visual laws. You can test them with a little light, and say, where was the light? They can point to it all over the world,
right? So they have no loss of vision.
They have no loss of motor function, because this man could probably paint all over the world in the first time you did the paint.
It's just that when he's doing this like putting the paint on his brush getting it there, he's neglecting it. It's like It's squished right. For some reason nobody knows why.
So it's it's usually from stroke. It's usually from damage to the right hemisphere and we're going to talk about contrailateral, and it's not our own stuff later on in the course, but
their contralateral visual space is squished
right, and and it's so obvious. Let me let me show you. Let me post.
So it's so obvious, so that a person is
a person may, even when they're
even when they are eating off their plate They're eating food off their plate. They will neglect half of the plate
right? So some of the people who are eating with these people. All they have to do is turn the plate one hundred and eighty degrees, and then they say, from anecdotes I've heard is that who put food on my plate
right, but it was there all along. She didn't notice it.
There's extreme cases where people who shave men shave. They only see after face.
Right? So when you're shaving, you only shave the part of the face that you're
you think exists. You don't notice the other part
right? So so that's the extreme cases. I was gonna pose. I was gonna quickly show you,
and there's all sorts of cool things. I'm going to show you in a second from literature.
And so
there's cool things like this where I have this in the slides. But I think that they're better here. The person is asked to draw analog from them,
or a flower from them
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:24:09
right, and they only draw that part.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:24:11
I.
Those are the cool ones I don't see a face. The face is really cool, but you don't see it, but not today.
Now, this guy.
So this is probably a demo. He's probably not the real person who had neglect probably a pro off like me,
shaving half his face and just doing this as a demo.
But this is the idea.
So the big puzzle again. We're trying to understand a behavior.
The big puzzle again is why
right? So? It's damaged from this temporal pridal Junction.
What's cool? Is it's It's a jumping of vision and motor in one part of space, so that you now act on it.
The damage damage this module of neurons that code space. Now, do you think it's only visual? Can it happen for touch? Can it happen for sound? Can it happen for smell? Can it happen for other senses anyone have an idea or comments?
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:25:14
Now, we
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:25:15
Okay,
Yeah. So So what's super cool is we grow up in our life and you develop in a multi-sensory world, a scientists break it down. So I, when I was training as a
but in reality, when my kids grew up,
they always saw an object in the world, and if that object made a sound like a bird, and it moved through space, they heard all those things right, and if the bird flew near their head, they would hear the sound, but also feel the wind
right. So it's a multi-sensory thing, and this disease is multi-sensory. So it happens for touch. It happens for smell. The the scientists I showed you earlier. Salvator. You published a paper where you gave different sense to the right or left nostril
and patients with hemispatial neglect, the contrailateral. So the left nostril compared to the right. Yeah.
Yeah. So
So that's a great question. I don't know the answer to it The
If there's a so tumor or seizure folks eye near where this module is like in the brain and the left, right right bridal junction, then it would cause the same symptoms Right? So it doesn't have to be only from strong.
It could be from a tumor. It could be a car. Accidents
it could be from anything just bleed. Internal bleed it could be from an aneurysm. But what has to happen is wherever this module is,
wherever it happens, exists that we need rights,
so it's the last of them right?
So it has to be damaged this far
right,
where the
varietal and the temporal and the frontal. It has to be within this space the
if it's in this side.
What happens is very rarely is their spatial neglect,
and it's probably because
we'll, We'll talk about this later
burning Keys area involved in understanding language So is any left-handers in the audience who want to admit their left-handers. Okay. So it should be ten percent.
So, like a five hands. Right? So it's. It's actually probably less in the in this class. And so left-handers
language where the keys and brokers area could be distributed across the two. If you're right-handed
hundred percent are languages on the left. For some reason
nobody knows if this module is there first, and then you start moving in your life, and you become biased towards the right because of the neuron structure.
This was here first coding space, and then, as you develop the language gets, put it,
nobody knows which one. It is chicken or
but the story is ten percent of Leftees. They might have language on both sides. And and so, somehow, space that's neglect when damage happens here
it kissed her.
So that's a great question.
It doesn't have to be strong.
Okay, So where are we? So So these are other tests. So
this bedside fifteen, if you, if you
put a person that give a person a piece of paper and give them a marker and say, bisect this line to the middle. They, of course, are going to bisect it here, because, you know, they have neglect
right?
And there's so many other tests. People have used way before computers and in gadgets. And and this again is like you can see there's a neglect of the space. And in some of these questions like you're you're crossing off. In this case you're crossing off the stars
so, and what a person is doing, is It's not like They're looking at it once, and then the disappear, and they go from memory
to physically going back and forth with a marker. Well, I got this one. I got this one. I got this one, and for them to neglect this part of the world. It sounds like absurd, just like It's as absurd, and a person missing half the food on their place when they're hungry,
right? So it's again a cool puzzle that this is the way the brain is set up again. This is the same thing as I showed you on the pictures. Yeah,
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:29:49
a lot of this working.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:29:54
Yeah, this is a great question. I'm going.
I don't study it. Maybe you can Google search it and find it. My guess. If a person who has this kind of advantage, it should not ever get behind
right like I drove from like Blur Street to air,
and I probably made like
at least ten left-handed terms, the
right and I could pay attention to the left part of space, because my brain is intact what's cool is. There's even a bias in some of this experiments, if you do it in normal people, and you push the person's brain. There is this module where there's a little bit of a bias. You pay attention on the right or left.
But yeah, in real world it happens to, they would have to deal with. They are all just like
the person has one of the students here mentioned epilepsy
like. If you have epilepsy is diagnosed, you can't try it until it's managed as you all get older my mom's day three she self-driving from years ago. But I think if you start doing tests,
make sure if you can see, and you can drive, and you could recognize a clock and draw it a clock, and all these kind of call your tests, because if you can't do that. You can't recommend science.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:31:06
It is the good day,
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:31:07
right? So my feeling is it's It's probably based on the clinician who is managing that person, and if it's really bad, and this is after the recovery,
they would have to do some sort of test to make
them able to draw.
But again, it's the same thing. You're walking across the road,
and if you're not paying attention to the left,
there are tests and stuff people do. There's just one cool scientist. His name's a Rossetti in the All France. So does anyone know anyone ever seen like a light shifting prism?
So it's just like you put it down, and the sunlight goes through it, and it changes into the rhyth all the rainbow. But if you look through it, it shifts the world,
shifts the light. So if you're looking, if you put the prism on your eye and look through one eye, it would shift the world by so much
depending on the the shape of this pyramid.
And so what this great neurologist did I, Rosetti researcher, put prisms on these people to shift the world. So instead of them. Neglecting this part of the world. It shifted the whole world this way, and they wore these prisms For some period of time it lasted. The treatment lasted for a day.
So you just go for a top.
And so this is still controversial. They did this maybe fifteen years ago or so,
but It's a cool therapy that has worked for some patients, and maybe that would work for them if they were not allowed to drive. You could drive
all right? So that's a good question. Anything else, Any other comments or questions about it. Neglect any spatial neck. Good.
Okay. So this is just like in the Google images I showed you.
You can neglect depending on how you pay attention to the object.
You can neglect the left part of the object.
Right? So this was done, you know, thirty years ago Almost
now the cool thing about this. We're gonna just touch on this really, briefly in the class. We're never going to learn brain networks. But of course you can imagine there's lots of brain areas connected to this. We talked a little bit about vision and a little bit about the motor system,
right? But to be able to do any any behavior, even the most simplest one, for the particular ocular reflex. I have colleagues who studied this for their whole career, and write papers about the V. Or their whole life.
When I was a student in the Ninety S. Right, and I would meet them at conferences, and they tell me the coolest new thing they did in their lab, you know, putting a person in a chair and spinning them around for a half an hour, and then watching their behavior of the rise and see how long it decays right, and then train them to do the stuff,
and they play with one part of the network, right? Maybe some part of this brain or the pathway to here for their whole career
right? This is a an attentional model of neglect
designed in one thousand nine hundred and ninety, and it still kind of holds true.
Okay? So any questions on this little spot where we are in the course so far yawning and neglect, and the idea of behaviors we're going to talk about
all right. So i'm gonna let's take a break. We'll let the tas disappear if they want to, because they can, because I think you both know what a neuron is right.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:34:21
Yeah.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:34:22
So that's great. I got to plug in my laptop and let's take a like a ten minute break. Gives you enough time to go get a
a snack
for us.
Okay? So uh everyone's back
that's recording. Yeah,
yeah, I hit it really fast. I was lucky.
So Ah, what we're going to start to dive into now is essentially what these building blocks are. Um! Of what a neuron is. So I have a couple of pictures here from the textbook
here's neurons, and you're going to see millions of different slides throughout your life, and probably not in this course. But the Google search neurons. There's lots of papers that have slides that are picked from a certain network that people were studying, and they
either somehow stain them or highlight them, or genetically modify them to glow with certain lights, and then you can visualize it once the animals are sacrificed,
or in in vivo with an animal alive.
This is just an example of a you know cell body of and dendrites and an axon from a neuron, right, a specific type of neuron.
And then you have glial cells which are intermixed with neurons all throughout the brain in central nervous system and purple nervous system, and they have different stands. So you can visualize them and compare across the two in a slice,
depending on what the the researchers experiment was.
Right. In this case it's just a picture highlighting what they are.
It's just structured.
You're going to see lots of other pictures,
right? And they're all schematic. There's no two neurons the same. There's no two views of a neuron. That's the same, because remember, they're all three d structures. There are three D blog in your brain that does function. It's there from development. Probably in utero.
You have some neurons, and they modify their dendrites and synapses as you as you learn when as you grow.
So
we're Now, in the chapter two. As I said, chapter, one just kind of stim it. Chapter two is where the front of your work should be in this section of the course.
So one of the people earlier I was talking to, and they said, Oh, it's one hundred something pages right. You can skim the first chat
right, and just like flip through it. Look at a few of the figures.
Ah, in Chapter two is where you have to learn about what's and where the neurons are. So you have the central nervous system where neurons reside, and we're going to talk about and a little bit about the personal nervous system.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:37:25
Ah, the basic structure is here,
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:37:27
all right. So you have a cell body.
You have dendrites that are inputs to the cell body. The cell body essentially is an accumulator of evidence from the dendrites, and it makes a decision whether to send a signal down
the axon,
tell another neuron or another muscle to do something, and that something is to fire right an electrical pulse
right? And so
what ends up happening? I'm going to show you in the next slide. But somewhere where the cell body
becomes the axon. There's a specialized spot called the Axon Hillock
that sums all the electrical information coming in
and sends it down the accent.
And you have to remember this, this axon and this this cell, body and and all the dendrites you can visualize like a tree in the forest. It's a three d structure. It changes, it moves. It's very dynamic, Right? It doesn't feel, win, but it does feel flow of
the water
right when you when you move your head like this. The neurons probably jiggle a little bit right, because if you're in a car accident and your brain is going at one hundred kilometers an hour, and it stops immediately. You can get
right because of the sheer force of stopping your brain, and your brain keeps moving in the skull
right, and the basic thing that can happen is I don't know how I I don't have a slide of this right now, but but you can imagine where your skull is and where your nasal cavity is. There's little things that go through the skull
to then be able to pick up sense and chemicals, and in a shearing accident those get shared off because of the movement, and you'd lose the sense of smell,
and probably the rest of your life
right, depending on what the damage was. So these are jiggly little things in our brain.
I'm: super small.
Uh, yeah, I already mentioned what the accent is
now the terminal buttons are the ends of these axons. The electrical pulse goes down this axon. It's the end, and at the end it's not electrical current that jumps to the next.
It's a chemical thing. So we're gonna talk about this in the future. It's not a big deal, and you'll read about it. But
at the end of these terminal buttons something is released, a drug.
It could be a dopamine. It could be acetylcholine in the example I showed you here. If it was the third cranial nerve, it's acetal cold
right? Um. It could be a hormone which we're going to show. I'm going to show you in a couple of slides.
This is just a bunch of different types of neurons, right? So you can have any neurons. So this is a model neuron the example that you would draw like I would draw on the board here.
It's an example Neuron: right? You have some inputs coming in from another neuron on some cell body that integrates it, adds it together,
and then it conducts down the axon, and it
releases some drug to then send a signal back down the street.
And as I mentioned earlier in one of the examples about how many neurons it takes to see your fingerprint you
right? This takes four milliseconds. One action potential
right? So as fast as a neuron can fire, is It's just the math. It's about two hundred and fifty times a second.
Right. That's the Max kind of red lined. If you got in your car, put your gas all the way down and saw your If you have a six shift. Saw your red line go up. That's as fast as your neurons can find
right. So in the model case in sensory cases, So you have different configurations. We're going to talk about these when we get to those chapters four and five and six, or we're skipping one of them motor neurons which synapse on muscles. All our muscles in our body are controlled nearely.
All right. So some of the work we do when we talk with,
say artists or or people who are dancers.
They use this analogy like I don't know if there's any dancers in the audience here just quickly raise your hand. So I don't know if, when you were learning something or sequence of movements together, if your teacher or something, you've got to learn it so that it becomes a motor memory,
right? And the memory is in your muscles.
There's there's no way to really know that right? It's really in the neurons that are controlling your muscles. So
right this deep down,
learning where you learn how to do something,
you don't have to be a dancer to experience this like I I I've been stick shift driving my car since I was sixteen, and i'm fifty something. So I've encoded this so deep that I cognitively don't have to use any resources to do.
And it's a multi-sensory signal thing. I listen to the engine. I pay attention to environments. The speed. So that's a vision coming in, and I can up, shift down, shift, use my feet. No problem.
I played softball all weekend, and my one leg is a little tight from playing, Saw five games of softball on the weekend, and so I noticed me shifting my clutch this morning
for maybe the first five, ten, ten minutes. So so it's only when there's some interruption in your automatic process, the muscle memory gets.
So that's an example. I don't. I don't know if anyone else like thinks of a behavior they have that they've had since they're a child like anyone can shout out to behavior That's for sure. A met like something that's become like,
What's that.
So? Yeah, musical instruments like. If you're a pianist or a harpist or a guitarist like you can play a a musical song that you practice, since You're a kid by just starting the first note
at the dance class. I was at this morning or this afternoon. The pianist bob the
he's probably in his like retirement age. I don't know what his age is, but we were talking about how he's forgetting names. I've known him for ten years. I haven't seen him since Covid, and he couldn't remember me.
I'm like Oh, i'm this guy, Joe sousa I've been working in the Valley school for ten years, and he's like
Oh, I kind of remember you like, and and it took a while for, and then we were talking, and i'm like, Well, you're never going to forget the songs you've been playing for like fifty years. It's like Oh, I know I never forget it
right. And and so this muscle memory is not really muscle memory. It's a network of brain areas that is so deep structured down. So we're going to talk about thelamic structures and basic Anglia structures. And ideally. If you don't use your cortex, you're using
down reflexes that you've overtrained. So music instruments is a great example. Yeah,
Yeah, there's some great Ah, Youtube videos on there. If anyone sees any cool videos flip on to me, I love them, and they're great for lecture material. Um, those are great. Yeah. And and this this man Bob, who is a pianist for over fifty years he was saying the same thing.
He's losing his memory, but he can still work.
One of the basic things that I think everyone in this audience does is brushing your teeth
right. You wake up in the morning, you brush your teeth. You don't think about anything. You probably think about the rest of the stuff you're going to do right after, but just try to brush your teeth with your other hand.
Right? It's like not encoded in memory. It's a you. You have the cognitive task right, you know you're brushing your
You know the behavior putting to paste on. You know the pattern you do just switch your hand
right. The it's really motor-based the neurons that do your teeth brushing. You start out, and you go through the execution of it the whole thing, and only do you ever modify it if you're dental, I Jettis, or your dentist says, Oh, you're missing this part. You're going to get like, you know, some bad stuff happening
like Pay attention to that.
You incorporate that new instruction into your behavior if you do so. This is what we all do. And the motor neurons are doing this with our
muscles. Okay? And then
you have local inter neurons,
right? So these are super small neurons that are, say, buried in the motor area. So it would all be within a we're talking about canis. It would be in a little part of the finger. It wouldn't leave that part of cortex.
It's axon it's dendrites. It's cell body. It's all within there so it's a super small neuron, and it may do some function like suppress the firing going out right or accumulate some in instruments like learning like it, like we're talking about learning. When you learn
the connections between this incoming neuron, the dendrites where the synapse is, it can either get enhanced, get reduced
or it can change structure,
or it can release more drugs. And all this is done by modifying the structure because it has to happen fast. We talked about this happening in four milliseconds so super fast.
What's cool is There's probably interneurons
your brain in in the fusiform face error which we're going to talk about when we get to the visual chapters, we
where you you came into class, say you learned some stuff,
but the coolest thing you're going to learn today is you've now encoded my sound from my mouth
with my visual features of my face.
All right, So this is the coolest thing you've learned, and your brain is going to learn this in such a way. By the next time we come together
your brain is going to have a new
group of synapses that now is a face link to with Joe the sound and my voice so like we might be walking. I might be walking past you in, or You're probably walking past me as I walk slow in like your lanes, and you hear me talking to someone, and you'll turn
because you have this recognition now from some process of learning in your brain.
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:48:07
What's cool is us. Neuroscientists are just starting to understand what can happen,
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:48:12
but we can't pinpoint in your brain where the learning happened. For this
it's a
local inch. Neurons are related to everything like There's almost every function. Every network will have local inter neurons that are modifying, adapting, and tuning Behave
right? So. But that's a great question.
We're going to talk about it more in lots of detail. Yeah, it's they're all over.
Then we have, like other types of neurons that synapse on these inter neurons to do something. And then so one example of
like a projection neuron modifying reflex behavior. So we started at the class in the first slide, talking about the pain, withdrawal, reflex,
right? So imagine.
So I have this.
We're in my kitchen, and this is
now it's all
This is like a big cash role of cooking for, like my friends, to come over them,
and i'm chatting. I'm maybe having a beer with my friends, and my kids are running around like maniacs, and we're having a party
right. So my hey reflexes for my call,
but my cognitive reflex is, i'm not going to
break what I just did. So I drop the crank, but I still hold on to it enough, and then I run to the water It cool that.
So imagine that's a prefrontal neuron. So this this projection neuron here could be a neuron in my frontal cortex somewhere in the front here, or here that projects to these neurons that control my hand, to then suppress the neurons through interneurons
to not do the reflex
right? And this is the way that our cognitions override our reflexes all the time
through these connections.
So does that make sense.
And in
today. This is just like a first-pass flavor. Um! I already see a lot of black faces which is cool because it's super complex. Um. Maybe we'll just stop after this slide, and and i'll post the rest of the slides from another lecture after this. But yeah, it's
yeah, there's lots to talk about. So imagine this is this: You have another example, Neuron. Here you have the cell body of all the dendrites up here,
and then you have an axon leaving, and axons can branch right? So so there's lots of connections that are one
neuron can make with other
postsynaptic
potential connections.
Um. So this is just a schematic showing this, and then I kind of animated the little bits. So you got axons from other neurons coming in on one part of this tree, and then you got other ones here. So imagine this is a neuron within some part of your visual system. Coding faces
right, and there's no such thing as a grandfather cell or a a grandmother. So there's no one neuron that codes for, say your face and then adjacent neuron quotes for your face, right? It's a network of firing and activity. But we can schematically say that this is the sound coming from auditory areas
that are now synapsing on a neuron that's in the face area.
Then this might be
something else, Maybe the the tone of my voice coming in from some part of the right
auditory cortex telling you the prosody of my vice, my voice, the emotion that I have right. If i'm trying to tell you a joke, or i'm trying to be serious. And and these are synapsing in this neuron. That's a a higher order, Visual face neuron that is
coding. Who? The essence of Joe is
right, because the people way back in the last role.
The part I project on your retina is much smaller than the people up here
like I fill a lot of the visual field, so it's not related to vision and per se, just like the neglect, the Galactic example. It's not the amount of vision it's, the amount of processing that happens Post Street right? And there's some other things like
maybe maybe this one one of these synapses comes in with, say, someone here loved University of West Frontier,
and you have a link or an association with that because you went there for undergrad, maybe in your first year,
because I said I went to Western that gets linked into this one as part of the Meta cognition of what I am as a human being, right.
All these things get synapsed on some cell body,
and this gets connected, and these synapses change in such a way that
to then modify it. Now, maybe what's cool is in A, in a neuron that doesn't exist adjacent to this,
you might have another prof that you had last year, the only met online you
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:53:30
then a couple the few people here who said you went to classes before. It was like four or five of you.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:53:35
You met some other prophets in your first very first year of here that was in like person.
Their voice might sound different than someone online. You know this right? So all these things get put together in this higher order, neuron, and maybe there's a chunk of brain somewhere in
somewhere within the temporal cortex. So
so somewhere in here there's an area called the fusiform face area.
This huge form of this area no one knows how it's really structured,
but maybe there's a column or a structure within it
that's for professors, say, or teachers in general,
and maybe there's a teacher that was very close to me.
Terms of the way I teach in terms of the way I look, and maybe it would be adjacent in a column within this
right? So i'm using this analogy as imagine we now jump to visual cortex,
then the visual parts X. What's cool is
there's columns for different structures. And so, if you see a line orientation like this, anything within this column is coding a part of the visual world for that orientation.
Right? So imagine this is a part of an a, a letter, and then the orientation
slowly progresses to horizontal, and then back.
And this would be a small chunk of the visual world, so like
the guy that's very back there who has a Starbucks cup,
Who's kind of looking down you with the glasses.
You're looking at me right now, and I take up a super small part of visual field. I probably might be in a very small part of the visual world. So in your retina
you're looking right at me. My face would be a small part. Maybe you could discriminate my eyes and my like faith, my lips. But that's it
right. And if I do this
and I was recording from part of your brain you're on.
If I did this because my orientation is changing
all right, this would be here. It would fire for this one.
So this orientation in the visual cortex is organized in a certain fashion based on the minds.
That's just the way the visual system is, and we're going to get into this in Chapter six.
But maybe this organization is same for higher order. Things like
people. You love your family. Strangers like nobody knows this in terms of face structure
in a high order vigil.
But that's a big tangent. I didn't want to even go there. I did sorry it was probably very bad.
Was it bad?
Okay, I never used that one before. All right. So so then you have the axon going out,
and this action only as an electrical current. If all the summation across all these dendrites or all these pink inputs is enough to pass a threshold,
right? And some people say, Well, if the neuron fires. It makes it the suit sixteen.
So that summation is super simple. I'll gonna show you like some. So say this neuron Here it's in some animal, a lower human.
We're recording at current.
So this is an electrical current. It's a mill of vaults.
And Yep,
based on. And if there's no one input to this they're on. It would be across time like this. Say, some input comes in.
It'll first up a little, a little bit like this, and it sums as inputs come into it
right. But what happens is you have.
If it decays really fast, you have to have enough input in time to be able to fire.
So it has to be enough current coming in. So that's a great question in terms of timing, so say only these fired, and, like second later these ones fired, and the second later these ones fired. That's not enough to some to make an outlet right? So this famous like neuroscientist
Mcgill. Donald Heads once coined this term. Neurons that fire together wire to them
right? So when you're learning, say a piano sequence of movements on with your motor system.
The first movement and the second movement on the third nose is all in sequence with that right, and it has to happen in a perfect timing. If you miss one, then it sounds off because you're matching a template
right? So you have to have the right timing to do this. Does that help answer that question.
Any other questions related to this is super complex. We're gonna come back to it like almost every class over the next few classes.
But the main thing I want you to know today is that once the cell body makes this decision where it's gonna fire,
the access potential happens,
and This action potential takes four milliseconds.
Super fast
super fast inter neurons because they're super small. It might take three milliseconds or two milliseconds because they're super small
right, and their axon is is smaller. So the process of electrical current half is faster
Unknown Speaker
Unknown Speaker
00:59:06
one year.
JF
Joseph FX DeSouza
00:59:11
Yeah, I can fired. So so this one down here
imagine this is like one there, and you can see this one. They're on the
Oh, where we are
right. So you imagine this is on another neuron, but it still has an axon coming out here, and this could fire on something else right, and when the current comes down I only drew this side, But if I drew this side this could be synapsing. Say, if this is the same
neuron of my system, this face neuron might project to say
some area related to memory
right because we're coding memory of what i'm saying, and this one might be coding like an emotion in the amygdala, so the circuit can branch, and they do. That's the way that's the super complex thing that very few neuroscientists have been able to figure out
how one neuron interacts with lots of things,
but that's a great question. I think that's a great place to end.
Yeah, let's end here.
I'm going to stop the recording
and ask.
Please ask questions. If you want.

=== Pop_Quiz_+_talk.txt ===
A couple questions, too. But first, is that anyone see this Canada flag thing for first year? The sensational perception everything? No, okay, so this talks is about, like, grow-based Behavior. Right, and last week, if you were? Uh, you would have seen a little bit of me chatting about what the future is, and then you would have saw kind of the end of graduate school.

So kind of jumped you into the future. In terms of like where you could get out if you were in graduate school, I think there was 23 or 25 or 17 people last week when I asked one go to grad school. It was something like a quarter of the glass, right?

So, last week, you saw three people give presentations correct. Remember what that was on? Yeah, so. So, like I said, um. Those people have died undergrad and all three of them are finished. Their masters rolling into their phds? Right, because they all started September 2023. And two of? Finish, their Masters, and one is.

So, what I wanted to do? I brought paper to do a quiz. Right. If you wanted to do this, um, it's super easy. All I want you to do is talk about what you heard last week. It's really to give me feedback if you want me to Market on the other side of the page.

Just write your student number and your name. Right, and it'll count as a quiz. I'm super easy at marketing quiz. I don't expect you to know anything. Because you only did it first year? Right, and this is kind of a practice of what could happen in a class. Right?

So I'd like to try this if that's okay. I know people have some people have comedies we've talked about this. Um, you can do it, and it doesn't happen. Just really, so I can get a feel if that's a useful thing for you, right? And so, before we do this, what I'd like you to all do is, while I'm passing out paper.

Everyone stare at this hand of leg on the screen. Stare at it for, like, a minute. Right, and then move your eyes to like one part of the. Of the wall here where she's white. Okay.

And don't look at me as I'm passing around paper. And if you don't have a pen or a writing utensil, I'll give you one. I brought some. Don't look at me. Look at the screen. Look at the center of the Canada Maple Leaf like, so try not to move your eyes.

I should have put a DOT there.

And the cool thing is. So right now, you guys are adapting your your retina. To light colors. And what's super cool about it? Is that? In a few minutes, you're going to see it after effect. And the idea this after effect. Is that it? Is your brain and brain on fatigue or tired or?

Okay, so whenever you think now, look at part of the white screen and what you see. Just shout out when you see? If you see anything? A Red Canadian flag. I got one up here, or anyone else? So you're rent Canadian flag when they look at the white part of the wall there?

Anyone see that? So, it's going to be. It's going to be different, because if you move your eyes many times, you're imagining your retina. You're adapters, it occurs, and the lights changes. If you look, if you don't want to see everything, look at it all over the Spain, and you'll just see your regular.

Right? If you stare at the center at one point or at one point in a little like? Fires on the leaf. Scary ads for a minute or two, and then look at part of the white wall. After that. Yeah, so the slide after image is perfectly normal. It's different for different people in the in the world right here, so.

A student here right at the front. Don't look at me, she's got the best view of the screen because her the image on her retina is really big compared to someone way at the back. Right, and you know, so far. So this is great. Keep trying it while I'm passing these out.

If you want me to know who you're writing everything when? Filling out these sheets. Uh, her name is two number on the back.

So? Anyone who's seen a bit of reddish. Why do you think that is? What do you think is happening in your brains?

This is the first place I'm Jewish in first session. Since open. Since 2006. And what's cool about it? And, uh, what's cool about it is, so you're gonna write whatever you think of, you know, when I give you the question up here? And you have five minutes, ten minutes, max.

Give me the sheet of paper, and then you're gonna get in a little group. Amongst you are people here. In a little group, and then you guys come up with the best answer. And this kind of group work. It is a nice way to put stuff damage.

And all these things have happened and hard, but Very very, I just died.

Does everyone have a sheet of paper if you don't? Oh yeah, anyone need a writing essential because they know I grabbed a whole bunch of stuff in the lab this morning?

And they'll have chalk up there.

Hey, he needed something the right way.

We got rock paper off the dress today. Oh yeah, go grab it.

Got one more. Okay, so right, your student number and name on one side? So, on the other side, I'm going to give you a question in a minute when I walk up to the charcoal.

Okay, so then what I like to do when I Mark these? Is like that? I like, not that I know anyone's name that because when you go someone's name. Um, there's a bias, right? So, last week, you saw, we, we showed you guys a little bit of the work we've been doing for the last 10 years in the lab.

And imagine if I was biased in my perception? So, I think, like, say, I wasn't dancing? Right, and as a dancer, I have this bias. Okay, I think the answer shouldn't hear everything. Right. So, if I see a person with Parkinson's and I do a clinical test at the start of the class before they dance, and then I administer this after class, and I know it's after class.

There could be a bias when I'm barking, scoring their border movements. Right, and what's in the literature that you can see that you can imagine? This is what's happened. A lot of the experiments have done their experiments where the medical doctor or the person doing the testing after on your story.

Could be nice because they know us after class. So, what we did in our studies back when we first started them is we videotaped the the little test? Right? So say you guys were students in the lab were all trained to do this clinical test because there's five Parkinson's disease rating scale.

You go to the classes, the dance classes all over in Argentina. It's not going to have money to send you that Argentina anymore, but you can go to Argentina. You go to New York. You go to, like, Montreal, and you do these tests, like one of you, videotapes it, and one of you like ministers.

And then, when we give it to you, people in the lab to score it. It's blinded, you don't know if it's before class or after class. Right, and we make sure the experimenters are in the video. They don't say, oh, remember, in your class, you did this. Right, there's no thing about how the class went.

All they see is a name tag on a person and the score and the video and they score it right and then video. It's super simple. I can show it to you later. Yeah, the person does this 10 times the person does this 10 times pretty good. This ten times 10 times is through instructions.

And it's super simple to score anyone in here can do it. All you do is belong to this movement to start a society web page get approved through training, and you get a certificate, and that's what everyone laughed at. And whatever one or two of you emailed, saying, how do I volunteer?

Just email me, like lady dick, to the TA. Um, okay, so? What should I ask you guys? So, usually these questions will be based on what we did last week or what we should know this week. I'm not going to draw a grain on the on the wall and say, label all these things because I don't expect you to remember that I'm talking, even though you may know.

Um, let's do. Okay, so.

How can gas?

Z for it, so disease is the parenthesis. And burden is all the things that happen in the disease. Okay, you guys have two minutes or five minutes. Just jot down anything you want. You need a better, um, you know, a paper paper, okay?

2.4 maybe essay form? You can draw pictures whatever you want. But on the other side, put your name and suit number. On the side, we're writing stuff related to the quiz. Don't put any. Because then, I don't know who it is. And then, I can't be biased when I write.

And of course, close your computers and and stuff because, as I don't know. Paper.

Just do this.

Okay, two more minutes guys.

Okay, one minute left guys.

Okay, so the place is down, so make sure your name and student number are on the other side of the paper. Your answer is on the left side, and if you can pass your sheets down this way, it's easier for you to collect. And then what we're going to do.

Next is two or three or four people around you and all this sheet of paper. We're going to right now. And if your best answer to that that we'll go over?

I find myself and find a giraffes. So, I don't want to bias my old answers. So, next?

Like?

One internet group that just do your best. She can do whatever he wants. Google search and see what's here?

So, now we're going to do. Same thing on that end. On the back side, here's your day and student number as a group will have new sheet, and she had these three people, so you're gonna began as many as you want. And three, my name is your number of sheets.

Yeah, let's group us, uh, let's group up us far in the front, so it just makes it easier.

And yes.

Yeah, like the doping up. This is how that it helps to potentially bypass the regions that like, like, damage to my transport sheets, the yellow sheets guys past the yellow sheets.

Okay, yeah, no worries yet. I don't know your name yet anyway, so? So guys, can I get those yellow sheets? Thank you! Oh, yours is here. Thank you! Yeah, I'll I hope to learn everything. I like, now I see a student like three years down the road. Remember the name walking down, like in the very hall, and I'll say, hey, Sam, and they're like, what?

I know, my name, like, like I taught, you remember? And it's good for migraine. So, you're saying, continue? Oh yeah, which is that pretty much just pilot what? What age guys for group hey for group? So I got a question, um, basic conversations. I think it was all three weeks.

Yeah, yeah. It's file basis.

We're saying by the new area. Yeah.

At home. Yeah, but um.

There were nuns with Alzheimer's, but they were able and a lot of it was really like food costs and general problems as well. With social studies you can help like they want, but um, play something else sort of like Tyler, Michael. Yes, yes.

Yep, I, I think I took that point look. The last point I was a social asking a postman asking, so especially what I was saying about the the substantial I press that it was like damaged to that region, basically like hinders like the transfer of signals to work with.

Yeah, tax and Remy and the dance and and involves all of his kids, uh?

The water provide increased stimulation in his sensory core Seasons. Thalamus, which counters the motivation from homeowners. I'm definitely right now. Yeah.

It's technically like friend requires in a second here. But yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, oh yeah. Uh, if bypasses the inhibition. Is that what it is? It. Yeah, it's this.

Was this a second study? Did they actually find that one? I think so, he says, and they were talking so fast. I don't care. Go details down the processing. I'm just gonna put it down.

Good for? Foreign.

Mr question.

Sorry, sorry. Handwritings, you know? Or it's like a four-year-old?

This is barely started to already feel behind, though it's just no things going out. They're just so like, happy, and like being able to do something like, here's one concept. Here's another concept. Here's another concept. It's like, before you eat, no one understand where they've done something else. What song is sorry?

It's not really important. It's like psychology and girls science, you know, real life is so cool and psychology and the prices of like we build more jobs. Uh, oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you. Sorry.

Yeah, it's Dory.

Now is if you know, in a minute or two, you guys like, close up your little groups. In an interview, I like to, like, hang it up on the wall here. All right, so I'll give you guys one or two minutes to finish off your group, uh meeting or chatting.

And then let's take it up on the board because certain groups will pick up things and certain will not so, and this is for me. So, the the reason I'm doing this is because I don't know the answer to this question. Right, there's lots of ideas in the world.

If you read that way, you see them. You saw some last week, but there's no correct answer. Okay, so, so this is a nice exercise for me as well as I learned from you guys, so I'll give you guys another minute or two, and then we'll and.

Are you like in Baltimore labs?

It's hard, like I, I sort of like made a point to like seek their family in first year. And then, like, I just sort of like found a position like, like, do testing for, like, ercp students and stuff like that, just like comparing, you know, performance between older and yeah, it's cool, which makes it hard to like make connections with your professors.

I'm just like I got lucky. I, you know, stay up like, you know, as like a list of labs and stuff like that. I like got lucky. I just like went to someone like went and looked at all these Labs. You know, found one that I thought their research was interesting, contacted the head of the lab.

It turned out to be incredibly lovely woman, like, you know, basically like helped me through this process, and like taught me so much, and I got a recommendation from a grad student in her lab for this other lab. I don't know. It's just like it's all about, like connections, which I think are, like, so hard to make when.

It's like, yeah.

But his research sounds really interesting.

So, like, were you able to get like the other Mark from this class, drop from your transcript yes, um?

All right, so, uh?

All right. So, in terms of disease burden for Parkinson's, let's talk down some things. So, what is some of the things that happened? Okay, so remember? Everyone else?

Neurons project yesterday, not me.

And she said that maybe the people's targeted? Right, but that's in our hands. We could be biased our cool people that have been super. Like, successful technical disease. So, this is an idea that we're putting out into the world. That if you dance weekly for 7 years or 6 years almost?

Your participation can get back. The idea that would be replicate this and never hurt yourself. Imagine we had flowers in the same Pakistan. I'm thinking of doing a project in Pakistani related to dance for long term and in this project it fit replicates in six years from now that the people have lower cognitive scores and scars, and those scores got a little better.

Then, we know that, oh, there is some active ingredient, but we don't know where. So, what else happens in the disease? Should we stay right here too late? Sparkinson's have a cure, no cure. Right. So if you get it, I probably around the age of, uh, onset, probably around the mid 50s, is the onset of the 50s now.

And, uh, so that's kind of disease burden. There's lots of other things. What did Stark's Parkinson's disease? So, in me? If I, if my family and I were prone to something, I might have a higher chance of getting hurt. So, there's a study done in. Somewhere in the north, like near Sweden, and it's steady down somewhere in Taiwan or Korea, where they followed their whole Nationwide for War over 20 years.

And they found two things anxiety and depression. If people have that their incidence of getting Parkinson's Italian? So, it tells us something about that circuit. Modifies disease, onset right, and the third thing is sleep. If you have very good sleep. The chances you're not going to get the disease, even if you have it in you to happen and trigger.

Um, if you have carelessly. Your burden might be higher. Okay, so that's kind of like even lots of other things, right? You can imagine all the many things that we saw you saw last week. So now when we talk about doing something with them. Right, music, dance, social whatever happens in a dance class.

Right. What do you think is happening that helps the people? What do you think is the main ingredient? I saw some cool things here. Right social engagement? Social. Helped with impression.

What happens in the disease is if the person gets it, they might have it for five six years. They can't work anymore. So they have to pay for retire or do whatever their job. Career allows. Right, they wind down their career, and then we're back home. They're lonely, especially if they're old, and they don't have.

Kids or a family or partner? Right, so they could be compressed alone. They have loneliness. Right, and so, one thing the social engagement does. Is, it gives them a pure root that's. People have the disease. The caregivers are there, and it becomes a beautiful Community, at least. What I've seen in my head in Toronto and in New York.

All right. So, what else could happen in the dance class that might be useful?

Okay, so this, so I'm going to put this on this side. Uh, because this is. Speculated. Or heavy lost his eyes. And I don't know if you guys heard that at the other side of the room, what she said. So, she said. Neurotransmitters and endorphins can be released because of the glass.

Right, but there's no measure. Like, I can't say I'm going to bring this tool for the dance class and put it in the middle of the room. I'm going to measure everyone's neurotransmitters. Before class, and then after class. I wish there was a super cool. There isn't right now.

Maybe it's a cool Tech that's being built. That could do this, but so his door fans. And neurotransmitters are still paint. And so you see this online all the time. Right, like, do this, and you'll get more dopamine release. You get hit a little more signal. That's all speculated.

And based on animal research, right? So, there might be an animal researcher that has a little gadget they can put in the brain of an animal, while the animal's doing a task the task could be something very simple, where the animals like sitting. At a care. And there's like a lever here.

Right, and the animals training. And if there's a light that flashes, it reaches for the woman. Right, and because it reaches for the lever, it gets a use reward in itself. When it gets to juice reward, they can see what's happening at all those times in the brain, where they put their electrode.

They can go to a warboard area like Metrotechnical nucleus. You can stick the electrode in there, and they can measure what's happening in that space of the brain. We can't do that in humans yet. The animal research figure. The benders are being speculation. How does this translate to a dance class?

Right, we know that it's happening, but we don't know for sure. All right, so that's that's why I put it under this section here. Speculated hypothesis. Or anything else? I understand help these people. Yeah.

Yeah, did you guys turn that at the back? Okay, so it helps with their fine motor skill. Right, and that's holding through, and we can measure that. And we have mentioned that people have made that all in the world. Find motor skills.

Okay, anything else? Yeah, this was like a hypothesis, but that like it basically like bypasses like the neural signals that are like stopped by the damaged striata. Yeah, and. Like, basically like relay them to the motor cortex and like, like. But give the movement back. Yeah, yeah, so, so, did you guys hear that at the back there?

So, the idea? What was your name Jay? The idea, Jay suggested, is that? Um, the areas that are damaged, so you heard that last week basal ganglia circuitry. Maybe there's circuits. Other than that, that are bypassing and getting stronger. To counteract the disease. And this is a great hypothesis when I first like started in this world of Dancing with Parkinson's and seeing their brains.

Uh, we started to do that. And so, I'm going to put that somewhere in here, because we're close to answering the question. Bypassing disease. Surface.

But we don't have enough proof yet, and so we're the only group in the world doing this. We do EEG before and after class, so all the measures you saw we did easy before and after class. We put the people in the scanner here in 2013 to 14 to look at it where their brain is doing.

You saw some of that. Uh, anything else? Okay, so this is kind of an idea. So, so now, let's imagine. And what's the? What's the disease that has the biggest burden in our society right now? So broody means like? If your parents or your grandparents have it, they have to be hospitalized.

It's going to cost you taxpayers if you have a job more money to take care of. Yeah. It's a financial idea. Let's put these up here.

And we're going to talk a little bit about it. I don't know a lot about it. I wrote one paper about it years ago. Yeah, I've been getting Paul Zimbers Alzheimer's disemetery. Yeah, anyone else would be able to say that one. Okay.

Uh, anything else? Yeah.

Anyone else?

Anyone else the doctor?

Anything else, guys? Yeah, the purchases. Yeah, let's see one two. I just talked about that this morning with. At the cafe. Anything else, guys? So these are all great. Yeah, which one, hepatitis, yeah? Very close to eviction.

Anyone else? So, so these are all awesome. So my next question is? Can some sort of narrow? Well, we call this neuro rehab, or, or some sort of treatment. Right. So I'm just gonna put a check mark. So, I don't think anyone's done anything like this dance for diabetes.

Yeah. It's probably a great idea, but I don't think I've ever seen a paper on that. These will have done it for cancer. People have for sure. Done it for dementia at Alzheimer's. People have done it for this. This is actually how dance movement therapy started in the U.S?

I would say 55 years ago or longer. It was dancers who started to go into psychiatric hospitals. And try to dance with the people who have the biggest problems. Because they would answer if they wanted to do something else. They're retiring, they're older, they're not dancing on stage anymore, and they thought they could help, so they created this idea.

They got proved to be. Psychotherapist. So the recycle therapists and Cancers, and they started a world called dance with her. And so it's all real world. It's done for a lot of things. Uh, addiction, I know it's for. And I don't know if here. If it's been done, but it should be.

Okay, so this is kind of. Uh, is this exercise okay to wake you guys up? Because I didn't want to just start talking about this like this all day. I thought this would be fun. So, um, should we take a little like break, like 10 minute break, and then start at 9, 30, the with the slides that I have prepared.

Let's start at 9 30.

=== PSYC_2440_-_Lecture_1_-_Sept_3.txt ===
Point before next class. I will post their lectures like they're going to talk to you about. And. Almost usually the lectures before they come up. So, I'll give you guys some slides. Um, you can look at them. You can put them on your laptops, make notes. Um, but when you come to class, I really want you to think.

Right. The C is supposed to come, and so yeah, I'm here. Oh, where are you? Oh yeah, sorry. I didn't want to interrupt your time. I know, I figured, yeah, hello, everyone. I'm your ta. My name is. Um, okay, so I am in the clinical program here at York as a neuropsychology stream specifically.

So, if anybody has any questions, feel free to ask. Um, my research, I think, is quite different from what everyone is going to present. I'm looking at how cognition, emotion, kind of interact, and how cognition can kind of degrade in the situation of emotion. So, again, any questions, feel free to reach out.

My email is on the syllabus already. Okay, I, I want to ask some questions. So, so she just got in. What were your mark like ninety six, Africa U of D. Okay, so it's super high, and she's successful. She's one of the few people who got in now what?

Techniques or research. Did you do before? So I did behavioral Neuroscience. I did work with rodents. I did the biopsychosocial model pain and how social interactions can increase gain sensitivity and pressure, and how that, like, The evolutionary perspective of that. So, so, now you have. So when we talk a little bit about natabase, someone talked that they took an animal course.

She has played with rap rap. I don't know if I played the brains because you didn't paint research. It's more behavioral. Yeah, I didn't do the surgeries, but somebody with rats bite your fingers off the phone. Okay, sounds nice. So, so this, you have, like, some expertise up here.

All right, we got an ex medical doctor there. And you have a person who just got into medical, which is like, I don't know how many of the 25 want to go in. Uh, but ask your TA we're all here to ask questions other than the course material. Right.

I don't have the the students in the lab, but if you go on the web page, you might be able to find us somehow. I don't actually have them one by my page because I have my web page is from 2006. When I started here. Um, so any other questions like the cylinders online?

Um, I'm gonna does anyone know what kind of research I do in my group? And we'll look it up. No, you probably don't. There's no reasons so. Neuroscientists. I was doing fmri Imaging of the brain since 1996. It's my first picture in my brain, which is, I can't believe it's the same or not.

We can look at how my brain is aged because we look at all my scans over the years. This one guy Remy wants to do this see my brain shrink there. Um. I do now. Um, I studied vision motor system, and at some point, I fell into an area called Parkinson's disease.

So, anyone know what Parkinson's disease is? Yeah.

I'm not really sure, I'd explain it okay, but I guess it's like weird Tremors and yeah. Yeah, neurological decline usually age snorodegenerative. Um, I saw your hand up there. I don't got anyone else. So, so I, my most interesting, like thing. I'm curious about the brain, is how neurons connect and how they get disrupted.

But because we can't study neurons. Can't study like, you don't mean that's floating around in their brains right now. There's no way to do this. You have to use other tools. The best tools you can, right? And so, at some point, I did this study with dancers kind of looked up through the family and stuff, so basal ganglia is one of the circuits where the.

Neurotransmitters. Like, there's not enough of them. And so the people have these Tremors. They have depression. They have anxiety. They have sleep disorders potentially before they even have dinner. So, and anyone know how many people in the world? So someone here at Marcus will tell you how many people in Canada, at least in his talk.

So, what I kind of fell into? Around 2012 was, how would he help these people? Have Parkinson's. They have a disease that has no care. The meds just slow down the symptoms because it gives you artificial dopamine, and so we started doing this dance. So, they go to pass.

They go to music dance class. They sit together, they move the teachers, and surprisingly, everyone's happy. All right. Surprisingly, anxiety goes away, surprisingly, their symptoms from the motor symptoms actually get reduced and, and when I found out about this around 2012, I'm like, shit. This can't work like, there's no one ever going to prove that this actually works in their brains.

So, I took on that challenge to try to look at that. So, you're going to see saveron talk about how, if you dance, your cognition might get better. So, this is super important in life, right? As you get older? You know, like, everyone has mothers and fathers and grandparents.

Right, how do you help them, right? So, she's going to show you how you might help them stay smart. I call my mom's 86, and I think she's losing marbles. I, like, I call it marbles every day, so she drops a few marbles. As her days go on and then, and miraculously, she's been lately last year, picking up marbles.

Right, like I'm from India. I took in India a couple, uh Aprils ago. And I thought she wasn't going to be today or not. I think she just wanted to diet and get her a whole cow and her brother, her last living sibling. But she somehow miraculous made it back, and lately she's been picking up the Marvel.

She's smarter, like, I'm shocked. I have no evidence other than I feel like she's doing okay. And so ashkanan will talk about one thing with Tremor and stuff. Like, we're talking about the motor system. Tremors happen in the hands and the feet and the body of the face and also in speech.

His speech is super complex. Right. So, when kids are growing up, anyone have children here? Yeah, so what's the last thing a child develops? When they're growing out in around two or three? Oh, my baby is still eight months. Oh, okay, no evidence. Can your baby talk yet? No, okay.

So are you homeless, but not clearly, all right, all right, so you get to see this. It's super cool, so I have four kids. I'm gonna show you lots of pictures in my slides over the year, um. With pictures in my case and different levels. And, uh, one cool thing about kids is, you could, if you pay attention to that where you could watch them development and all my kids had speechworthy perceptions together last.

And so, for people with Parkinson's, their speech goes, and how you preserve this. There's things we do, and it looks like dance is helping them to. And then Marcus will talk about some cool stuff, and I have to leave now because I have a master's defense that was rescheduled for 9 12.

Way across campus. So you're getting a bunch of guest lectures today? Um. Next week, we'll go over this. Um, in the syllabus, I have this thing called. Let me show you. I got so many laptops here. It feels like a whole workstation, but.

Okay, so somewhere here. I have quizzes. Okay. So, there'll be quizzes online for sure. In in every chapter, we do it. But I may actually do quiz in person where I walk into class and I just hang you out. A sheet of black paper and I'll go to the board and I'll say, you know, and it'll be related to the last class.

So, imagine this is next week, I'll say. What is? Competing. Right. So, what is Parkinson? Right, and if you listen to the class before? Then, you'll know exactly what it is. It didn't come across and you don't pay attention because you weren't here. It's impossible, and you just write like straight with conscience and stuff.

I usually Market where the T will help me Market, depending on how many people in class and that counts towards your mark. Right, and if you do that, then I drop one or two of these during the year. Like, say, I do only four or five of these in a year.

Right, and I only did four or five, and you came to all of them. I'll probably drop two of them. Right, and I'm super easy when I'm marking it. It's really just to get feedback. On what you guys are learning because I don't usually get that until? Weeks after your major, and I can't put a name and a student number to people's faces until I learn.

So, that's what we'll probably do, um. I think that's it.

What I'm going to do is this kind of. This is kind of a cheat sheet for the class. Right, so? You guys all see that looks small. Is it okay in the back, or do we have to dim the lights? See that stuff hurt. So, so, at the end of the course, this looks like a a mess of stuff.

So, you're going to learn a lot about it, right? So, this is a a guy, one of my kids yawning. And this is actually before his actual date was supposed to be born. Right, and so he's gone. Right. Everyone notices to behavior. Right. It has a neural circuit. For sure, right?

People who, like, in a stroke, sometimes they yawn too much or they never go. Right, and what we're going to do is this is still a puzzle because no one really studies. If there's a group in terrorists who guides are super interested in it. But it's a behavior. Right, and we're going to study different behaviors today.

You're going to get a whole slew of behaviors. Um, relating to Parkinson's controls. Yeah, that's good. That's better so. So, at the top there, the top right, the few people who've seen trains. Can you tell me what's missing from the column on your left compared to the column on your right?

Yeah, cerebellum's missing. Totally. Does anyone have any idea what Sarah observo I'm supposed to do? Supposed to do fine tuning and motor control and other stuff. Right, so this person? For the one person as a medium. There, you probably have a cerebellum in your baby's head, and they're probably crawling around and doing stuff, right?

This woman is Chinese woman. It's a paper from maybe over a decade ago. It's in your course when I'll show it to you, but this lady had almost no problem doing any Behavior a person can do. All that happened was for between their old things as she grew up was slower, so I think she started to walk instead of at one she started walking, maybe at two.

Right, so our brain still figured it out? Okay, so it's super cool and then. That's an MRI picture. What you see down here in these colorful squiggles that look like, kind of in a brain. One of the people today, Mark is going to tell you a little bit about that, so that's called diffusion tensor Imaging.

It's a different Imaging technique that's separate within the same MRI that they use here at Sherman. Um, we'll talk a little bit about that. At the very bottom, there is a picture of a dance class at Trinity St Paul. It's a place where we do the dance for apartments.

We still do that. Um. If anyone wants to volunteer to the dance classes, we mail you later or whatever you can try to like, hook you up. Okay, I gotta go. So, who's going to go next? Okay, so I'll introduce him. He just finished his. Masters last year. And he is starting a PhD with two supervisors here at York in the psych program.

And. If it works, it works. Yeah, I'll I'll say for if you guys have any questions about the syllabus, I'll be here by the end of class. Any questions for me before I run out the door here?

Yeah, and so, uh. My great hands enjoy asking lots of questions. Uh, because it's so fun to ask. Questions and and drill these guys. They're all like at the level of. Phd almost and? They need to be tested. Scroll down, and then you guys can tell me if they did well next week.

Hi everyone, my name is ashka and I will go over the project that I did for my Master's and a little bit after that. Uh, so. Just the an introduction about all these Parkinson's. As maybe you have? Mentioned Pokemon is a neurodiversity disease, a progressive neurodegracy that can affect two to three percent of the population over the age of 16.

Uh, it has both motor and non-motor symptoms. And. Notably, that speech is impaired in Parkinson's, and that can affect up to 90 percent of the individuals that are affected, and it is, regardless of the stage of the disease Theory, they can develop symptoms in the very first stages or later on.

So, previous research has shown that the vocal features are different in people who are Parkinson's compared to the controls and also as the disease progresses. It tends to get worse.

But at the time I was doing my master, there were some gaps in the literature about how dance can affect. Like this speech, and why is that going to affect speech? And so I looked into two vocal features in people with Pakistan who went to the dance classes. There were fundamental frequency and intensity standard deviations.

And like. I looked into if going to the task passes, help them at least preserve their vocal features, which is like expected to get decline.

Uh, so we had a data set that was from 2014 to 2019, like almost five years of data was collected, and it was like the comparison between the vocal features between people with parking around at Galaxy controls? So, we have 29 people with Parkinson and 29 healthy control. Both groups went to the dance classes, regular dance classes weekly at National Valley School of Canada, and Trinity St Altar.

And it was between 2014 2019, but it was a part of a larger study, which I guess lasted until people that after that, like the class of the in-person classes were canceled, and it went to online. So, if you know what updrs is?

Uh, it's a questioner for stats that you evaluate the motor symptoms and non-mover symptoms in people with partners. What they did was in their study. They collected data they collected the updrs for both proof before and after the dance classes. So, dance classes was, uh, an hour and 15 minutes long, and they just participate were doing uvdr, and people were collecting new pdrs before the dias, and after the dance class.

So we have. Like, originally, it was 11 time points, but I. Like, absolutely. They take that into four time points, each one representing an year of. Like a measure of one year. So, as I mentioned, I looked into two vocal features, the fundamental frequency and intensity of standard deviations.

But there are other, more conventional local features that are being evaluated in Parkinson's disease, like Shimmer Jitter. Uh, harmonic to noise ratio, and the reason that I chose this. Is that like? For those like Jitter and Shimmer. There are specific tasks that this object were have to do in order to the like for us that the sound points can be evaluated for those measures, but uh.

In the updrs. There was a part that they were evaluating their speech, and they were handing a picture and were asked to describe that picture for 30 to 45 seconds. And. Out, as the task was different from the one that is needed for Jitter and Shimmer. Two measures that I could look into was the fundamental frequency and increase.

This is the picture that they use for this object to describe. And here I put this sample, and I guess. Like an example of Pakistan people and the healthy control describing the same picture and like to show how intensity of their voice are different. This is the intensity for the whole part of their description, and then I like isolated its common sentence common word that they use, uh, in their description.

While there is overflowing, that was. And sometimes they used, and you can see how it's different. On the left is the partisan subject, and on the right is the control subject. You see that the like, the range of their sound, the intensity of their sound that is changing, is different for the healthy controller is larger.

And there's more variation.

What we found was that for the fundamental frequency standard deviation, surprisingly, it was. There was a main effect of time meaning that from 2014 to 2019, this measure changed for both people with Parkinson and controls. Well, for the intensity standard deviation. We didn't find any differences between the two group or.

Across stock. For more detail on the intensity standard deviation. As I mentioned, there was not much change over time for both groups Arkansas and health controls. And I haven't applied yet. Top glue lines are the health controls and the bottom. Black ones are the parking Zone. People, you see, there are friends fish, like.

But the like, there was no significance difference between the two. However, for the fundamental frequency, we found that it was changed over time and like, I'm going to show you the plot. This is the same. Like, partly some people, two black lines at the bottom and the host controls for two blue lines on the top, and you can notice that from in this sort of the study.

Uh, the two group had different values for the frequency, but We go over and like at the end time when there were more singular, meaning that I forgot to mention this. The higher fundamental frequency standard deviation, the better. So, it's expected to decline as the disease progresses. But here, as the subject we're going to the dance classes, we show that the somehow dance is helping them with this vocal feature.

Like from other literatures they. Say that they expect for the fundamental frequency to decline, and this was a study. And celebrities that like developed partisan disease, and they looked into the same local feature, the fundamental frequency standard deviation from like six to 10 years per year to the clinical diagnosis of parking Zone through, like, five to ten years after the disease started.

And they showed that as the disease progresses, fundamental frequency standard deviation declined. It was in contrast with our study at the subject to the dance classes and shows that it helped. Uh, for the healthy control we have to study, they didn't find any difference in the elemental frequency standard position.

We saw that. Like, for the one of the athletes, one of the local features that we use the fundamental frequency. Uh, it can be an indicator or somehow a biomarker for the disease, and you can look into that for and see how it change over the time and in different disease stages and.

Like? It's very costly. I think the the only thing that they have to do is talk to a microphone or something, and then, like the algorithm can evaluate their fundamental frequency and the standard deviation of it. Um, and like dance was helping these guys, please. Somehow.

This is the age of AI, and we use AI for everything so. It's very good that it can monitor like even subtle changes in the voice that are not. Like, obvious to us. And. Like, we use this method for only Parkinson's disease, but it can be used in other neurodegenerative diseases or with normal aging to follow up with their voice and how changes.

So as a summary of what we found for the first study, is that like these these ones? These are from our study. These are the data, the box plotted box plots are from our city, and the lines are like the dash Gray Line is from the other study that I showed you the celebrity ones that it is expected to decline as the disease progresses, but the blue line here is the trend of our like fundamental frequency.

A standard deviation changes over time. And like, there was another study. I mean that there are only like a few studies moving into. Wall call features in Arkansas and? The process, the grade process you see. It's from another study. It was a single case study that looked into the Parkinson's disease and the fundamental frequencies in standard image.

And they showed that, like, from five years per year to the diagnosis, this measure started deteriorate. We published this study and. In the Journal of voice. And. Go to the next study, uh, but I will call any questions here. For the first thing.

What? What is it specifically about dance that that you're theorizing is, is, is causing this increase or enhancement in in this in this fosd variable? We were not sure, but I will talk about that more in the second study that we did.

So, fortunately for a subset of the 29 people that I mentioned we had for the study, we had neuroimaging data. So, we wanted to look okay. We have found in the behavior in the vocal features that it was changed. It got better. We wanted to know how, but other can be look into the brain and seeing changes in the brain.

So 10 people had the MRIs. Data and? Uh, we intended to look into two regions of interest for the functional MRI. Everybody knows what functional MRI is.

Nobody knows. Okay with the function of MRN, you will. Tell the participant to do something while they are scanning there and. In the MRI, you cannot move. So, what they asked to do for this participants? Uh, they were asked to imagine their dance as they were dancing in the studio.

They could not move. They would just imagine their dance and. You acquire signals from the brain and then analyze it with softwares to see the activity in different brain regions. And are they different from the Baseline that they're not doing anything versus the time they are. Uh, imagining. Doing something.

For our case, it was the dance imagination. Uh, so we're looking to the function of MRI and. We had. At the same time, the they, we got the structural MRI, and like the p1t2, and we looked into the cortical thickness changes in the brain in two regions of Interest.

One of them was broadcast. Everybody knows a profile, like, is responsible for speech production, and there was another region the supplementary from the language, which is within the SMA, the supplementary motor area that is more responsible for planning the movement. So, if they're planning to do speech, that should get activated.

And also we looked into the diffusion weighted Imaging. That's the one that you're saying about the last thing on his display.

For the functional numeric, it looked into two of the regions of Interest. One of them is very close to the broadcast area and, like, from other studies. I found that it's responsible for overspeak. Uh, like the subjects if they tend to speak to themselves. That area should be without in the functional number 11, and we should see activity of them.

We had, like MRI, in four time points, and there were period to the other study like the other study was in 2014 to 2019, and these MRIs were in 2013 and 2014, and it was like across eight months, and they had collected four time plans. Of data and. Like, they were very new to the ass at the moment.

Like, the soft jokes were the very first time going to the dance classes. They were all Parking some people and. Then, after that they saw that the other study which they collected didn't come from 2014 to. So, these are the like the signal changes, uh? Across time for the four time points that we had.

It was September December of 2013 and January in Aprilo. Uh. So, if we plots the Bold signal changes, full signal is the one that I told you about in the functional MRI. You will look into the. Uh, blood oxygenated. I don't remember the L or D. But. It's an indirect way to look into the activity in the brain, so when you're using one part of your brain, you're expected to have more blood flow going into that region and more blood wash out of that, and you look into the oxygenated blood versus the deoxygenated and.

But computationally, you calculate the difference between these two and see how it's different, and you can have an indirect measure of the activity of the brain industry. So, these are the bold signal changes across the four time points, and we saw that there was a different, uh, like insignificant difference between the first time coin in September till January.

Also for the other region of the internet. Let me show you where it is. It's in the within the SMA, the supplementary water area, and uh, very close to the supplementary frontal language that I mentioned. And for that part. Also, this is the ball signal changes, and like in there dance, there was a part that there was a vocalization.

So, in the actual dance industry, they pretended to have a lasso in their hand and say, Yeeha, like something like that, and I looked into this bold signal changes in that time points. As the subject where self-reporting that okay, in the 30 seconds I was. Uh, at the park that I had the last one in my hand after this guy.

And also. For this, we found a significant change from September to January in the Baltimore. From that degree. Uh, we also looked into the cortical thickness one over the Brokers area and one over the supplementary frontal language. The broadcast area didn't show any changes across the four time points that we had, and we actually was not expecting to see more changes because.

You are always using your speech, so dance is not a part that. Module, latest speech from the broadcaster, but maybe in the other region, the supplementary frontal language as there was a part that they were. Uh, having variable communication their dance. It was the planning part of the speech that.

Uh, might have changed, and we saw that, like. From September to December, there was an increase, uh, and then from December to. Like the April, the fourth time when it was almost a decrease in the Portugal fitness. And also the last one. We looked into the DTI as Joe was mentioning like this is the white matter connectivity, and which is the neurology technique and we looked into the connections between the Brokers area, which is on the left side of your brain and to the supplementary frontal language.

Until then, and see if the connections between these two regions has changed over time. So these are three subjects with the DTI and. Top roller, the January scan, and. And like, you see, in two of the subjects, there are somehow new connections getting formed in the later scan. We're not too sure about that if they are new connections.

Uh, or they are computational errors of the process is happening, but we have. Measures that are being evaluated in DTI, getting better. Those connections between the two regions. So, for the, there are different measures that you looked into when you're doing PTI. They're fractional anisotropy. Uh, exhale diffusivity. Mean diffusivity and radial diffusivity, and for.

These two time points that we had, and with the three subject that we have with UTI of the functional and isotropy, yet better with higher values in the second scan compared to the first. Uh, for the XLTCT, it was almost significant like P value 0.056. So we can with caution.

Say that there were new connection or at least the metrics in their brain was different for the two that were the connection between these two regions. Uh, between the two time points. And we are planning to publish this. It's currently under review. Foreign. That's almost all. I have to say.

Okay, any questions?

Okay.

Okay, now Samurai will present.

Where she was Joe. Um, so the title of my thesis is six years of dance and Parkinson's, assessing cognitive and non-motor outcomes. Um, so just to provide another brief control to what Parkinson's is. It's a age-related movement disorder, and this involves Progressive loss of dopamine neurons and dopamine is crucial for facilitating movements, so the loss of dopamine gives rise to Motors impairments like you would see in Parkinson's, so, such as Tremors afraid of concierge community, things like that, um, the ones that I just mentioned are known as the Hallmark motor signs, but secondary motorcyes include gay dysfunction, so it's difficulty with walking, and this can lead to Greater fall risk.

Um, here we have this. Grandma, and she has these blue, shaky lines surrounding her, and this is just to illustrate Tremors, which is a common water sign that's seen in Parkinson's. Um, so aside from it being characterized as a movement disorder, it's also a brain-owned or regenerative condition, and there's no care for it.

And aside from the motor impairments, there's a long list of non-motor symptoms that can appear very early long so years before or even decades before. During the global stage of PD, which is before a diagnosis is made because together diagnosis, you need to have the motor science. Um, examples of common non-motor symptoms include cognitive, client, and sleep disturbances, but there are many others constipation, urinary problems, depression, fatigue, things like that.

Um, beginning with the non-residents and the Secret disturbances. Insomnia is one of the most common sleep disturbance, and this is seen in up to 80 of cases risk factors. It's a risk factor for cognitive decline, depression, and EDS. And EDS is known as excessive daytime sleepiness. So, when you are having trouble staying awake during the day, so this could be a curious time, it's like, um, sitting, reading a book you're driving things like, just any time if you find it hard to stay awake.

This is seen enough to 60 percent of cases in PE and risk factors for this include insomnia and depression. And the final dollar or something that I will be focusing heavily on is cognitive decline, so cognitive decline is seen six times more likely of the PE population compared to those without PD.

Um, and it can also present before a diagnosis of PDS made or very early font. It's also a risk factor for India, so excessive data. Expanding on cognitive decline. This is a normal part of aging. However, it does appear on Spectrum, so cognitive decline can progress to mild cognitive impairment, and this is seen in up to 35 of cases at PE onset, um, it also is.

It also appears in the middle of the spectrum, so it's a lot more severe than just caucus decline, but much less severe than dementia. And MCI is also a risk factor for dementia. Um, so after about well or so years approximately, I just now can progress to dementia and within 20 years, approximately 80 of cases only do progress to dementia agent genetics, our communities dementia, and this significantly can have daily life, and there's Independence.

Um and key domains that can be affected during Parkinson's can include memory, visual spatial attention, and working memory. And just to briefly go over these, so memory impairments can result in slower processing of information or difficulty. Would recall a recognition visual facial function is essentially our understanding of spatial relationships between objects, so an impairment within this domain would result in a typical human navigating the environment, so that can include bunch of things.

It could make it difficult for you to carry out your daily chores and things like that. Um, and finally, we have executive dysfunction, which is known as the Hallmark content client and Parkinson's, and this includes your attention and working learning process. Working memory is essentially the storage and manipulation of stored information and a deficit in working memory can result.

Can result in an inability process relevant to confirmation. So, what does all of us have to do with Parkinson's? I mean, I'm sorry, with Dad. So basically, there's been a growing interest in dance to help slow down the disease progression. And as we know, physical activity can be very beneficial for brain health and singling out deaths, um.

You know that Dad combines movement with music and social engagement? It taps into your learning and your memory. You have to memorize choreographic movements and know when to actually execute them. So, it's happening to a lot of great areas that brain areas that are getting activated, um, there have also been numerous studies that have found that dance can improve that is associated with improved motor and non-motor symptoms.

However, when we look at cognition, these data settings have only been typically short-terranged between a few weeks up to two years, so we don't actually know what the long-term impact of that is on cognition, and that brings me to my Sergio gettic questions, um, so. Is kind of a long study, but we will first go over death and the influence on global cognition to global cognition is just everything, and then we will also take a look at hate and cognition, so the airports that update, and then the association between gay and cognition.

And then, we'll. Finally, we'll break down the cognitive domains and focus on three, specifically, which already mentioned later on. And we'll also be looking at select number symptoms, and we're going to be focusing on sleep definitive association with coffee. So, my overall research question is, how does long-term participation end dance influence cognition and select non-whitific Parkinson's disease?

But it's going to give over this part since I mentioned it, but um, so we had two groups starting with the death group. We had 43 volunteers um with Parkinson's and I say volunteered because it wasn't observational studies. So the actually recruiting one it was people signing up for wherever they wanted to do, but they were attending these dance classes, uh, weekly done classes, um, between 2014 to 2019, so the process six year period here with using many mental a examination.

And we also, as we also use the updrs to assess their motor and non-motor symptoms. We did not have any control group, so instead we had selected a reference group from a larger database, and we included 29 individuals with Parkinson's, who were basically in active across the same study period.

So, from 2014 to 2019, They were. Their coefficient was assessed between the Montreal cognitive assessment, the mocha, and they also had completed bupdrs. Because both of the cognitive tests had differ, we've had for us to do an objective comparison. We staggerized the scales to the center as a test and disease cores just so we can put them on the same skill and do a comparison.

And now, let's take a look at the result. So before I show the actual the entirety of the graph for the dance group, if I'm focusing on global cognition, we have oxidized that I'm looking for six years, but we need to better cognition and maybe compared to the connector reference group and look forward to the graph.

I wanted to point out a few things. So the white area, which is scores above 26 to 30, that indicates healthy or normal cognition. So, anything below that would indicate cognitive decline. To help visually represent this, we've included to the same gravel before that has the Parkinson's and then what appears to be like a normal grammar.

This isn't to say that if you spore within the white brain, you no longer have Parkinson's. It's just to show that as the disease progresses, you would expect that your copy of decline employees progress and worsen across time. Um. Taking a look at the scores of the dance group, we see that during the start of the studies of 2014 to 2019 to see that the scores are simply, they're scattered across the ring.

But as we move towards the end of the study, most of the scores. They remain within the white, so the healthy, normal condoms of its own. Taking a look at their General trainer pattern. You see that? Participants have improved by approximately or almost 0.5 points per year. And comparing this to the reference group, where we hypothesize that physical inactivity would lead to worse cognition and pedic rate.

Those who does, for six years. Again, the white zone indicates healthier normal cognition or anything below the name branding below 26, so the gray area would be getting kind of decline. Here, we see that participants in the reference group were quickly enacted across this year period. They were only improving by 0.05 points per year, so we saw a greater improvements in the dance group compared to the reference group where we see relatively no change.

And all these scores are their raw scores. And now, let's take a look at their standard Sports. Okay, so the dance group here is shown in purple, and the reference group is shown in Gray, and we're going to take. We're going to focus on the bottom half of this graph, right, with a bar.

So, in the starting of the study between 2014 to 2015, we see that there's no significant difference between both groups. However, if we take a look at 2016, we see that there is a significant Improvement in the dance group, but still no change in the physically inactive reference group.

The common themes that the cognitive games that we see in the dance group are sustained um from 2016 to 2019. Again, there was no change in the reference group. And by 2019, you see that this difference? This improvement that we saw in the cast group is no longer there.

It was also significant by 2019, and this is likely because it reduced participation. So by the end of the sending plan, we only had three five participants, so the study might have been up to power to see if there was a device. And now, let's take a look at gate.

So, again, um, I wanted to clear a few things, um, first. We hypothesized up the dance group of greater impairments in gay performance across the six year period compared to the physical reference group. The range here is the opposite, so the higher the score, the worse the symptom. And I also wanted to point out that for the dance group, we no longer have 43 people.

We only were able to include time participants, and this was because we wanted to include pretty expensive. We had at least two testing sessions done for us to compare three and post assessments. Um, so just to point out a few other things if we focus on the purple boxes, we see that the boxes are much smaller.

The whiskers are also smaller, and this essentially represents that the dance group had more stable scores compared to the reference group. We will take a look at the gray boxes. We see a lot more variability, and we know these because the boxes and the whiskers are a lot bigger.

We also had two outliers, one in each group. So, if we take a look at 2017 for the dance group to see that the score was much lower compared to the rest of the fitness spoons. And then, in 2019, see that the we have another outlier, and this basically is the score was a lot higher or a lot worse compared to the rest of these groups.

Um, so, unfortunately, in the dance group, we saw no change across time. We could speculate that this could be preservation of gate function, but because we only had 10 participants, the study was severely underpowered was to actually do an accurate respect analysis. Um, however, in 2018, we do see a temporary decline in the reference group.

This was only temporary, so we can probably speculate that this might be because of symptoms variability in engage performance, because this this significance was no longer in 2019. And now going back to cognition. So the three domains that we wanted to focus on, which are the three ones that we'll plays you have attended working memory as one condition, spatial function, and then memory.

Taking a look at the dance group first, we saw that there was significant improvements in intention, working memory, um. From 2017 to 2019. Um, and then if we look at memory, we only see that in the JavaScript, there's only a significant Improvement in 2016 and 2017. Um, so we consecuted that it's.

We can speculate that the cognitive cognitive gains were not sustained by the end of the study because of the intervention may not have been as common to be stimulating anymore. And then. Finally, we have the full spatial function. So, for visual facial function, we saw that scores remain stable.

There was no change in the dance group across the sixth year period, um. This, we are unsure if this is actually preservation. It could also be because the concrete test that was used for the dad's group, the nmsc. The way that I assesses visual spatial publishment, and if by using one item and that's scored out of one and it's binary, so there might not be enough variability for us to see anything, um.

And now, let's take a look at all three domains in the reference group. So, so across memory, attention with memory, original spatial function, we saw that there was no chain in the reference group across the sixth year period. And finally, let's take a look at sleep. Um, so in this analysis, we focus on insomnia and daytime sleepiness and a few things to point out again.

The higher the score, the worse the symptom insomnia is shown in Wu and yellow. We have big time sickness. Dance is represented. The dance group, The Johnson, presented by the saw online and the dotted line is for the reference group. Um, so insomnia is significantly worsened in the reference group.

This was from 2018 to 2019, but insomnia across sixth year period did remain stable in the in the dance group, and then we also have daytime seeking this, and we saw no change in either group across to six years period. We also thought that there was no association between student and Congression, and so, what did the results tell us and why are they important?

So? So, for Global cognition, we saw there was a significant Improvement in the dance group, but this difference was no longer there for 2019. Um, I think in Liberations of participation and Education for individuals today. We thought there was Improvement in the dies group and in memory and attention.

Easter memory, so we usually communities like that is associated with the cognitive outcomes. For the reference group, so the group that remains we thought there was no change in global cognition and also no change across the individuals. You know, change in any kind of either group. This, maybe for a few reasons, so we might need a more comprehensive assessment for assessing asset daytime sickness.

So, as I mentioned previously, um, not just one factor. It's, it can happen at any time. So if you're driving, you're reading. You're just sitting, um, on your phone anytime. Um, and there are better measures out there, but this the suspect we used is not really captured the entirety of death.

Um, secondly, sleep related disturbances may not overlap in mild pregnancy. So, both of our groups are dad's group, and our reference group had mild BP, and we usually typically see an overlap between Sikh disturbances as the disease progresses and goes towards the advanced stages. So that might also be a reason why we don't see anything for UPS.

Um, and the importance of this is that Canada's population is aging, and there's a rising number of cases, and this is referred to as a rising tie, because cases are expected to settle by 2030, so this is the next. Five years. And although the older aspects of the disease can be rehabilitating non-motor symptoms, especially in combination with the motor symptoms can be extremely challenging, and this is not only for the individuals themselves, but it contributes significantly to economic and care comparable, but then.

And also non-wire symptoms. They contribute significantly to reduce quality of light and low blood satisfaction. So the way that we perceive our life and our well-being, and this can contribute to low mood feelings of unhappiness, stress, and things like that.

Okay, uh, now I'm Marcus. I'm the uh senator of the day, um, leaving a generous two hour to talk about my talk, which I'm sure would not think to go, I promise. Okay. So, um, let's start with this guy, right? I'll have fun. One more famous person who got Parkinson's later on in live streams.

He was, uh, three times heavyweight boxing champion in 1964 for boxing a little like a butterfly boxing. For effort 40 years later. To this, right? A sad old man. Soon after his retirement, he diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. Made him barely talk. React to any stereo stimuli. Or perform off any kind of physical activity.

He passed away in 2013, I think. Month after this picture was taken. So, you might ask, what is Parkinson's think? I truly feel. Um, I should give this feel before these two presentations, but here we are. What is Parkinson's disease? It was first discovered by James Parkinson's and naming it after himself.

He described the disease as a essay on the shaking pulse. However, it was the French neurologist John Martin that is the first people to systematically characterize the disease and its reflying information, relating any of the disease. The guy on the right also discovered multiple sclerosis. He was a great Norse.

Neuroscientist at the time got lots of work done for the Parkinsonants and cultures process. Here are some early sketches of Chicago on the left. You can see voice changes like Ashken haven't mentioned. And on the right, he described it as a signature hand gesture in my rigida. Now, we call this hill rolling track.

So, if you take your um? Roll a pill with your pinky. And in this finger. That's with a hand gesture of a participation with the people present a pill rolling track. He also sketched the abnormal posture and walking at his very Thomas. I don't know how many of you have contact with a partisan patient, but?

This is still what they look now has over, um, 150 years of Discovery. And we still haven't found a definite cure to Parkinson's. Nowadays, we recognize Parkinson's disease as a age-related neurodegenerative disease. Age related, essentially just. People reach some kind of age. This disease develops naturally. In other words, we don't know what triggers this.

Neurodegenerated, on the other hand, means the neurons in the brains are essentially dying. And in the current technology, we couldn't make the dying neurons in the brain to grow back. Okay. Common symptoms like Cimarron has been three diet slow movements, Tremor, muscle rigidity, trouble swallowing, and imposture. Uh, walking key.

It currently affects over a hundred and ten thousand nations in capital. So, if you think about the total population that is a significant amount, some of the. Some of the patients are asymptomic, meaning they don't present any of these. In the beginning phase and a progresses worse and worse as time goes on.

There are currently some. Diagnostic methods. Like, if you get scanned in the retina? They Parkinson's patients exhibit a significant pattern different than anyone else, and they diagnosed these people with Parkinson's, right? One of, uh, Joe's colleagues? Actually was diagnosed with Parts in this way, without any exhibiting symptoms like that.

So, why do we have these symptoms? We can see in the membrane on a bottom. A healthy control would have a impact substantia diver. This essentially black substance exception either, right? It appears to the black, as you can see in this slice gear, and in the Parkinson's, it's almost gone.

It's absolute. So this region? Does the dopamine production in the basal ganglion for the motor circuit? So that's why part of the patient exhibits Tremor slowest movement because their motor circuits are not activated properly. If we take a look off this brain slides, we've got the cortex in pink.

These various cortexes, vertices, motor Association cortex, sensory Association cortex. Uh, and.

Are there things that Works closely with the structuring the middle? We got thalamus in red, trade in green, and the globalist palette is externals and internists in blue. These colorful regions scattered. If we call it, the basal gang places in the middle upwards. Let's take a quick overview of what's happening in the Vaso game in a neurologically healthy subjects.

So, at rest, nothing is active, and we want to keep all our limbs still. This Globals holidays keeps it inhibition our balance. And his thalamus is what directs the primary motor tortex. I don't know, exactly. Learn is yet, but the primary motor cortex, which grows in our limbs if it were raised by hand.

The crown will look for an expensive right, and this is happening before the motor works. Thalamus is helping the motor cortex what to do? Harass. This Global's Palace inhibits the thought, so our limbs if we didn't want to do doesn't move around. When we want to do something? The cortex.

How's these dragon? And from dopamine input from the substantia nigra, the black substances.

We inhibit the globals out of this. And in this way, thalamus is now active. It's ready for the movement. Now, this command can reach from the vortex. Do the thalamus and tell them what to do if you want to raise our land. And here we are. With the support of dopamine, we got a smooth and regular move.

This substantia nigra striatum, Globus Paladas, Dynamic together. It's called the direct pathway where the gold pathway essentially called us when to go with warm a movement. And we got. We also got this indirect pathway, which is not show Peter. That essentially tells us when to stop when to intake balance.

You should stop.

Now, in the park of this model, we get a degraded substantia nigra. The neurons were not there to produce dopamine. So, in this case with the, uh, the movement pulse came from the cortex. When it reaches the Triadum and then walking to reach the thalamus. You can no longer do so.

Because the global is Paladin stays the thalamus to be inhibit for an extended time. So, when finally slowly reached the uh, inhibited thalamus, the pause would essentially get degraded get prolonged. And therefore, we got a. Delayed and working rate and movement.

So, essentially, what Joel told us is that dance is beneficial to participations on a motor aspect, right? If we put them into dance programs three years later, their motor symptoms doesn't get worse. Right, mind the? Uh, the condom doesn't get worse, doesn't mean it was, uh, it proved in any sort of way.

Ashton told us the speech feature essentially can get better. And. Simran told us the. The cognition factor. The memory can matter with this kind of things. But what I want to know is what happens inside the brain that essentially drives those changes, right? What part of the brag had changed caused all these behaviorals?

We've seen a lot of cases actually. There are other researchers that Joe bags at the same result dance is good part of Parkinson's patient on of various aspects, not only the motor right. We can. Improve muscle tail, enhance interpersonal relationship. Who's self-esteem, right, and essentially, uh, improve their quality of life.

And furthermore, in aerobic exercise. I don't know if you have heard a term or a lot, but aerobic exercise in general is beneficial for brain health for everybody, not only in hearts patients so. If you get stressed, go walk in the park, right? Go run a few kilometers. It is helpful, right?

Trust me. This isn't exactly what I said. What if it what is happening in the brain that drives all these changes that Joe has seen and ashcam and simranazi? To find that we are going to rely on your Imaging methods like MRI, magnetic resonance images. And the field expertise I work in, which is, uh, specifically white matter in your image.

Okay, that says, get a little bit over.

How many of you haven't heard the term of Ray matter and why matter?

A lot of you almost half. Okay, thank you. So gray matter. Essentially, is our neurons cell bodies right in the brain. You can see the gray matter is down the house or the outer surface off the brain. Because it cell bodies that have the nucleus inside them and appears to be gray on the anatomy slide.

So that's what we call a greyhound. The Y matter? Is the maximum bundle that neuron the cell body sends out to communicate with other neurons. And because it is a? Um. A fat, surrounded structure. And the fact that used to be white monthly. And that's why we call it the white map.

So the brain manner does the work white matter. Communicate the single. You can sort of picture this as. The gray matters. Aren't the city ones? Like we got Ronald, we got Scarborough. We got Mississauga and the Y matter on the highways that connecting the 401, the Gardner Highway. You can put a sort of put us in this finale.

So, we want to see how the white matter at least I want to see how the Y Max got changed in Parkinson Nations. For that, we speculated a model of external cues. External Q essentially means there are other forms of sensory input to our system that helps this sort of mode of processing.

You can see in that. The essence of dance is. People interlocking the movement. With some kind of music or Metro, any kind beat, Etc. So this matching activity? Gives us the motor exercise and my giving them. The more exercise the part reasons patient's knees that helps with their motor proxy.

Furthermore, we got the visual input of that. The authority input the music. And sometimes I have no touch from the dance Partners or the dad leaders and also have as exertive views. There are previous experiments that have shown Park as its patients walks better when there are external accused present.

So, if we put lines on this floor? The parking sensations. It's going to walk better when their lines absent, or if a meter news, income, or a metronome it played while you're walking. They also walks better. So that essentially gives us a hint that extendedum cues are helpful, but in one way.

Now, let's go back to this diamond, right? We got, uh, the degraded substantia naira don't have any absence. We got delayed, uh, activation off the thalamus, and eventually we've got any delay working degrade movement as a behavioral output. If we add external cues in there? The thalamus essentially acts as a an iteration of all these stimuli that were received into our brain and in all the output we want to control of your body.

If we have external cues, we have increased simuli stimulation from the sensory core disease in the balance. We might essentially turn it around into this, ready to be activated state. We might essentially counter the inhibition from this structure Global as time.

You can essentially counter the inhibition from the Gold's houses, and we rescue the movement. Given that we have seen real Behavior effect when Joe's study in Ashland City, it simmer and study. We hypothesize the output halfway from the balance. To the motor for next step. Actually, guys are removed them.

Have some sort of neuropathicism be changed. Now, many of you haven't heard a turret, uh, neuropascists. Good, uh, how many have you have returned? Uh, neurons that the wire fire together wire together? Nice, nice. So this well tells us. If we activate the pathway a lot? It will essentially get improved timeline time.

So? This balance is. Gets activated more often is how the pathway is supposedly get stressful. This is essentially my hypothesis, and we are going to use.

Okay. Okay, we have seen that. Before we see the actual study. Anybody got any questions about the rationale, the train of thoughts, anything?

Yes.

Yes. So in Parkinson's patients.

Yes, yes, let me go back to.

Okay, this one. Uh, actually.

So, this part is your night, right? Uh, gets degraded because in participations, they create a cytotoxin substance inside a brain called Lewy bodies. The Lewy bodies got accumulated and inside the toxicity essentially killed the neurons in the substantial anger, and they are dopamine producing them. So, in the whole circuit, Austin's based on point in the eye, it doesn't get enough of nobody input in your system.

So that's what creates these all Downstream of problems and okay? Okay, anybody else?

Now, moving on to the actual study.

The funny thing is, uh, the three of us actually. Actually, the four album doesn't look yellow. We out paint to stay. That's brought a single, a shame. No, no, it's the same. The same data collection section, right? Joe had. Uh, 16 part presentation in with and each of us selected the substance subset of participant to work with.

For me. Unfortunately, I only get four. Depends, uh? Uh, these four are the only four people who had the. Your your Imaging data. I need for two time points, right? You need at least two time points to visualize a change across time. So I got four mild participations. I don't have any control.

That's, uh, another thing we'll cover later. Their average year about diagnosis is 63.9. And they have no other implications other than apartment companies. We row them into weekly voluntary participations in an hour, 15 minutes in length. We have two brain stands. We did a structural MRI essentially called P1, uh, we got P1 scans.

We got the two structural scans. These are all just, uh, scanning right structure was called T1. We got FRI functional magnetic resonance imaging, and uh, DTI diffusion tensor. Your DTI is specifically designed to detect the Y matter structure at the side of it, so have that. And the data was collected in January and April of 2004.

Joe had his original setting in. Be three years of time span, and simran also got the whole time frame of data. And again, for me, I only have three. So we have to work. Now, data processing is the major happening of i7. We have to do a whole bunch of data processing.

The data caught off the scanner into final final. Number point that we can put statistics later on. So, we have this raw data from hot up to the scanner. We use some kind of tool into these, uh, processable form. We separated into structural scans and diffusion, weightage, and essentially that's another name for white, matter-centric scanning.

Okay, see this is T1 on the left? We. All kind of structures are presented clearly. The fusion weight is bad, looks kind of different. And there is the grayscale. Then the ventricles where it's filled with cortical spinal fluid. The T1 appears to be black the diffusion way to scan.

It appears to be white. That's because they're um. Single present single presentation is on a different scale, right? And it's not entirely inverted. At this stage, I'll call them different. You'll learn about more of that in advance, your Imaging. I don't know that ports is all part of York, but.

It is what it is. For more processing. We divide this structural scan into a form of five tissue type segmentation, essentially devise the dividing whole structure of the drain, the whole B1 into five hives of tissues. We got gray matter, why matter sub quarterful brain pattern meet? The gray matter is very inside the cortex.

And the purple slime fluid and hotline position. This step is essentially recognized where the interface between gray and Y matter is right. We want to image the why matters. We must know where determinants. Using the diffusion way to scan and the boundaries to trace, where each streamlines will go.

We simulate the form of wagmatter into connecting streamline. These stream lines connect between the agreement.

So, now we have the entire rings. Why matter simulated into streamline formal? In diffusion tensor image. We essentially measure how the water diffuses inside of a nerve bone. Their bundle is made of. Tens of thousands of millions of these little, um, axons, right. They compress themselves into a bundle.

And we want to measure the water diffusion inside of the bundle. As you may imagine? The water I uses in a perfect spear model with no constraints is clogged. When these axons are present? The axon presses it into the elongated elliptical shape. So, uh, the shape of the water by Fusion is made into intensive, and that is what we measure is diffusion tensor engine, right?

On the left, we got a healthy myelinated axle bundle. The accent is passively it it mild it, which is, uh, made of fat. That is, it does not like water, right, the water getting pushed around? In a more healthy action bundle. There are more restricted by Fusion, so that means.

The water game pushed around more. But in a inward or less mild and Native. Sometimes the axon, the amount from the axon is missing, the signal gets, uh, graded in another way. That's what happens in multiple sclerosis, right? The the bundles are there, but the myeliner gun? This leads to increased diffusion and.

You know, less healthy. Yeah. Isotropic or unisotropic water vacuum, right? You'll change blood water that fuses in a perfect sphere. But in the axle bundles, the diffusion model from a sphere is compressed into this elongated of the upper ship. These three hygen bodies, which we measured, is what the outcome of the fusion tensor image right don't memorize this formula.

I promise, it's not going to be unfortunate. Okay, so I myself and I couldn't remember memorizing it. Uh, but do know the concept this, uh, law and access that the long axis is called plungement doodle diffusivity, right? How much the water. Can I use it? How long people on the axes of the axon?

The average of these two is called radial electricity. It tells you how much the water diffuses in a radiated wrench. And if we put these three together and divide it by three, make the mean is called mean diffusivity. How much is this huge model that is? Water type fuses overall.

And this big formula of fractional and isotropy, right? This. The concept of isotropy came from. Uh, how much Randomness this water technology model have, right? If it's, uh, perfectly isotropic, right? The water Monaco have? I know the fries is, uh, is it more random because there are more? Freedom.

Inside of it, and in this compressed model is less. So, there's fractal and isotropy. Tells us. Essentially, is measured bad to give us the overall shape of the elliptical model. All right, I get some memory. So? Uh, how many of you have seen a MRI scan? Okay, thank you okay.

Uh, the MRI scans are presented in each little box. Well, pixels. We got. A square picture, right? But Vox, what we got, paid volume off scans, uh, it is divided by a little cubicles of. Uh, one millimeter Cube or two millimeter Q, right? Depending on the metrics. And the whole brain is presented in those little tubes.

In each of the box of the cubes, we got a. In the whole answer, all right. And in these gray areas are ventricles. We've got corpospinal fluid. This is where we've got perfect isotrope, right? Perfect water diffusion, which is sweet. And in these elliptical. More elliptical boxes. We got a compression from the axle bundles.

Now, if we do a simple game of connecting the dots in each of the little voxels, we connect. How? Um. How they act so that Fusion was, and we create a streamline of simulating why matter Dynamics. So, eventually, for a single tract, we got something like this, right? Uh, actually, these tracks are color coded.

Red means it travels in this horizontal Direction and communicates with the left and right brain. With grain, it travels in this long computer Direction. It communicates within a. A single. A single hemisphere of the brain, but it connects with different region with blue. It travels up and down. The commands were async, the similar from the body to the brain or from the brain to the body.

And eventually for the O-ring. We got this this colorful picture, all right again. These are hoverboarded.

Before we get further. I know this is quite complex, but uh, question about the methodology about the future cancer images? Nope.

You haven't. Okay, nice. Okay. Now we have established. We simulated the entire range of white matter. Now, we want to see. This specific track of Y Max, how it actually? Right, remember from? From this diagram, we will see how a wide pattern specifically from McDonald's to the motor vertex have changed.

We use Ray matter as a filtering mechanism. To essentially filter this white matter track from the whole from the rest. So, we got thalamus to start. We filter anything that is connected to the balance. And we add the prime motor cortex in there. And we filter anything that connects between.

And this is the final result. This is the connection from the primary motor cortex to the Dominus in this particular subject.

Right? We already talked about this and. The reason we do? This is because we want to know where your tracks are so we can select. Which block, so that passes through to get our final metrics. Right. We talked about the axial radio and mean diffusivity. We talked about fractional on isotropy, right, and.

Now, we want to select. The voxel that gets trapped passes through to get a number of a single track, right? The, uh, all of these four metrics? Uh, have the scanner happens, right? We just have to select. Would track the which box, and then it tries to pass through and get the name of that single account.

And we got a whole array of numbers, and we can do statistics later on. For me, I personally do our studio, um, I know. Python is a more popular programming language, so.

Again, going back to this diagram, you might notice. From this study, we are missing a controller. Right, because I don't have any control subject to work with.

Instead, I selected a control pathways within the same subject sprain to compensate for the lacks of processes of people. We couldn't select the same halfway, so we select the another pattern. This is the visual path. The connection from visual coordinates to the balance, right? The reason we select this this particular pathway is, well, a it's more well understood pathway.

It's a extensively steady pathway High group. Uh, we got CVR that. Essentially, studies visual so. And we know this pathway should not exhibit a change if the participants are continuously using their Vision. What they call blind or something? So we. We uses this pathway as a control pathway for the same subject.

We can also included the whole ring Matrix. Remember, we do simulations of the whole brain, the whole brain white manometric to confirm any Global effect caused by aerobic acids, right? So, let's first take a look at the selected streamline tab within each of the track. Remember, we got two tracks.

We got the. Motorpark X 2000s and Falamus, two video workouts and? We got good atmosphere. So a total of four? Specifically in the right side. Motor track. We got a decrease in track count. Is this simulated streamline account? From April from January to April, these four participants all have a significant decrease, extremely healthy, the p-value.

The p-value tells you how? How valid this statistics is is less than 0.02 means. This is a very significant observation, um. So, what that essentially means is the number of simulated streamlines whenever we do selection based on thalamus and more importance. But we have not seen real metrics yet within the selected voxels.

The difference here. Could you do stagnification differences? When segmenting the whole brain's gray matter, we might have some discrepancies between January and April. So by this observation alone, this decreased by itself does not provide sufficient evidence for any kind of structural Improvement or structural, uh. Decline within those markets.

We have to take a look at the real metrics before that. I've just mentioned to determine where it is a difference or not. If we move on to these four metrics. They are not significantly different on group level at all. Despite we have some discrepancies. Across individual level, you can see the purple line.

This subject Mt exhibits what we want, right? We have. Axial diffusivity increase means the the tensor is stretched more in this direction. Uh, radial and mean. Deducibility decrease means it's less diffused along the radial Direction. The tensor gets more elongated, gets thinner in the middle, and they increase in fractional and isotro, right?

And it tells us, it's uh, being. Less likely to a spear and more likely to. Are perfect elongated. Model, right? So, he exhibits what we want, but it's counteract by other subjects, so we don't have a root level of significance. It both off the motor tracks and the visual tracks.

Okay, uh? Before it was left hemisphere. Now, this is right hemisphere, uh, essentially tells us the same thing. None of the metrics are significantly different across three months. Again, we got individual level of discrepancies, but nothing significant, I think, root level. We also look at the O-range metrics. Still, no significant difference between January and April in these four participants are group level.

What it tells us is, there might not be a change in this alpha pathway because of neuroplasticity. They are also no Global change on. Why matter because of early exercise essentially during in the global white matter and visual important, right? Before we move on through interpretation. Again, any questions?

Nope. I'm confused about, like when you were going over, like the diffuser tensor Imaging and describing when you were going over the diffusion tensor Imaging, and like the isotropic and and isotropic. And just like the the implications of like water flow, I I sort of lost you there, okay?

So, let's start with this, right? So, if you pictured a, uh, water follicle? Right, without any restriction. It's going to get a fuse at all directions. Right. The water that can be modeled the prediction of where diabetes is. Goes into a sphere because they kind of diffused in Alzheimer's relations, right?

If you put restriction on those for, say, uh, you put out a table. You could only diffuse a belonging axis of a table model. It's not gonna use up because of gravity. He's not going to diffuse down because disable there, right? So, now, we're in. The fusion model is a plane looks like a plate.

Right? Hmm, and now we want to put this water molecule inside of axill Bluffs. So what axon essentially looks like is? Uh, I kind of like this wire, right? If we put multiple? Wires together, and we put a water molecule in the middle, how it's going to have used right.

It's kind of that. Use more in this direction less than this. Yeah, right? So it forms a elliptical model, right? Yeah, okay. That's essentially what it means, and we got this. We got this perfect isotropic. Spear model and a strain on isotropic delivery. Okay, good, yeah, so all right.

Okay.

As we move on to the interpretation, go back to our hypotheses. We may essentially reject. Uh, failed to reject our new one policies that there might not be a change in this. Study having of motor.

Now, we see there are no change motor or visual track for 3 months. There are also no change in the whole brain yamatra track, except for one part hashkin just presented, kindly told us. This, the change from the supplementary motor critics to the broadcaster. Essentially responsible for speech production, right?

I've I've been talked about my research for an hour or so. My brokeness area has been incredibly active in the past hour. And. This is what drives people to produce the speech, and they have a linkage to the supplementary motor area to the. Preparation of motor movements. How can I control my muscles around my mouth?

How can I? Pictorial muscles in my throat right to produce a coherent speech. He had observed a significant structural Improvement in this pastor, right? He talked about a fractionalized trophy and actual diffusivity, I'm sure. I was kind of kind of got feedback of it, but now came to this explanation.

I hope I can make this clearer for you guys. So, we have the same subjects. The the same scans in the same time frame. Well, I will see the change he doesn't. What that tells us that tells us, uh, I might not. Be looking at the correct places, right?

And we don't know what is the time frame for the motor pathway to change? It's three months to shorten. Can we do it in six months? Let me do it in two years, right? We don't know that because we want. We only have three months worth of date. Now, given that we know there indeed change across three months, just not in mind is our setting pathway.

Now, let's talk about my studies limitation and future Direction. Well, first of all, it is a proof of concept. It only consists of four people lack of control group. But we, our first researchers on this planet that implemented diffuse intense Imaging into dance and how to affect harnesses people, right, and we have in the signaging?

So, if we continue with a larger scale of data collection and? Uh, participant recruitment. We might be on to something.

This, uh, full brain track based special statistics is another Advanced method working on the whole ring of white matter. It essentially spits out a heat map option, right where it change it. It's going to appear. Red or it's not so wedgy, it's got a pair blue, right? If we have?

This. In the future, we can essentially pinpoint where do white matter have changed most, right, for instance? Speech pathway. It's gonna probably appear red while my visual and motor pathway is probably going to appear blue because they don't take. Okay. And then we want to link our Discovery of your Imaging of range structure change with actual behavioral entries, right, such as?

Uh, similar memory. Memory or cognition metrics or any kind of? Physical measure. Are they decreased in time freezing? Have a? All less right. Have their memory change? Can't we associate these behavioral changes into changes in the brain, right? If there's association again, we might be up to something. This pathway is governed by this structure in the brain, right, and then.

And now there is a. Lifelong debate between dance and exercise. We have seen dance have the special effects, but the exercise people say, hey, it's all just aerobic exercise that drives to change. You couldn't isolate aerobic exercise from your diastria. But now, with this result, we might actually have, right?

Because the motor pathway that controls our limbs does not have a change, but this speech pathway that is irrelevant to aerobic exercise is just for example, have an activity, and we have seen better behavioral presentation for dance people about dancing, Advanced participation versus Department inspection. We have exercise. These non-lower aspect is speech, the music, all the social engagement.

Might actually be. What makes the difference, right? The main new part, we isolate the molar output from the mix. Okay, that's. Basically, yet we got a lot of famous people we got Michael J fox. We got Ozzy Osbourne, uh, as you might know, uh, former American President Bill Clinton also had Harvesting disease, right?

And it can continue on this linear research track. We hope one day we might finally dance the parcels of it, right? Okay, any? Uh. Question about the whole lecture? Yes, I was very curious for all three of you involved in these experiments as they were happening. Or were you using data?

Uh, they had to take place. We use the data that is ready there, I believe. The data collection happens from 2013 to 2019, right, right before covet happened, so hope it happened there. And this data, which is more than 10 years old at this point, have inspired a lot of research.

A lot of papers in this life, right, and we still are undermining the state. Try and still trying to make me faster than these people get out. Yeah, anything else?

Uh, I guess that's it. I don't know if Joe would want to. No, uh, I'll stick around again for any questions, but other than that, I think we have nothing else. Then, you're all free to go. Yeah, for myself. I have completed two years Ambassadors.

=== Sep_10_at_9-33_a.m..txt ===
Okay, so um, I'm gonna record these lectures, but it's terrible because I have to stand very close to here, and I like moving around so. If you can see the the board there, what do you think this is? Right? Yeah. So, a ring of what cases? See it. Yeah, why would?

Install the extracted for your writing service. What's a reason this way? Yeah, it's that we're moving to. No pressure relieve internal pressure. Yeah, from an accident or something. Yeah, uh, anything other, any other reason? Yeah. During her surgery. Yeah, any other reasons? So, this is, I don't know the answer to this question, and it was, I don't know what could be right, but what they're doing is you see little pieces of paper written and put on the surface of their brain.

So, what they do is they get an electric paddle, so they get a paddle. And they put it on the surface of this, the brain, and put a current in it. Right, and what does that current do?

Yeah, stimulates a neurons or something. Yeah, it stimulates a whole bunch of circuits. So not only wonder over the time, lots of them, probably thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, it stimulates them. And then it activates the circuit. So if? The number one was on a part of the motor cortex.

And they stimulated. Right, and if I'm in my right? Hemisphere. And if I'm in the hand area, I would have a twitch in my hand as the current winner. Activate. The circuit was down to the spinal cord and creates a motor contraction. That's what motor cortex does so it's an artificial stimulus.

Then they move it over a little bit, so say they did it on number five. Right? And say, we're in the motor strip? If they stimulate it, and if it's more lateral on the right side. I might have a twitch on my face. Right, and so this is just hardwiring of how a brain is wired.

But they need to see it in this specific person because they're going in to potentially say do neurosurgery to remove a tumor. Gets causing seizures. Right? So say this was my like 19 year old kid. Right, and she's had crazy seizures in the last couple years. You can't continue it at games anymore because she proceeds are so valid.

Right? Eventually, someone does an MRI on the person on my daughter and they realize, oh, she has a tumor in her left hemisphere. Right and, and we have to find a way to get to that tumor because we don't want to go through the motor cortex. My daughter has aspirations we were talking earlier about driving a motorcycle.

She's got her M1 and she has her own car and she lives at Queens and and she wants to be able to drive this motorcycle if she lost part of her say where we are near her foot, she wouldn't be able to hit the brake. Or no? Right footage snap?

Can you remember this? Yeah, I think right, Fritz doing the the gears, yeah, and this one's doing. I can't remember, see it. So, so she needs to keep this part of the motor cortex. Right, and if they go through a different track, so say they decide to go through.

Here, you have to make sure they act it out all the areas because if she goes through here, we're going to learn this in the later class, probably when the last class is. If they go through the left hemisphere around here, what would be here? Anyone? Remember, right? So they would go through part of Wernicke's area.

Anyone ever heard that yet? So, we're in the Keys area. I saw a nod if you know what it is. Do you remember what it is well? So, we're in. Keys area is, of course, some natavis discovered. It probably hundreds of years ago, I don't actually know who was.

But we're in a keys area. Does understanding what the sound is to be called speech? Right? So my daughter went to French school, and I'm like, no, you're not going through this tract. Say it was down kind of where the Crosshair is here. More lateral. You're not going through that because you're going to lose her understanding of speech.

She knows French and English. How's she going to communicate the rest of her life. She's only going to be 20. So they'll find a different route through a part of the cortex by stimulating it where it's not actually part of a hardwired circuit. Right, and so to do this.

Of course, you probably need like anyone here. Some of you said, you want to go to a professional school. So to be a neurosurgeon, I know two people, one in Memorial Bob heal. You do have to grad school together, so he did probably like probably a dozen or so years after marriage to be a nursery, but he also did a PhD in Neuroscience and worked with rats with this guy.

He's Federal Western, so he did lots of extra training. Right, so? These people are great at doing their job. They're highly specialized and what I'm going to teach you today is some of the building blocks on the directions of how to get in the brain, how to describe to you, some of the circuits, and the important ones I think are important for us.

Okay. And, uh. If I forget to post the the lecture, I'm recording someone remind me because I haven't done this since before quarter. Okay. Um, so? We started at the class with this. Right, because I was giving out the sheets of paper. You would stare at the screen, and then I would flip to this, and you would see something red.

Right. Again, that's an example of hardwire in Iraq. In your retina and in higher, very low visual areas. Red and green are opponent colors. So, you're adapting to the green by staring at that flag for a while, and then we look at this screen and don't move your eyes.

You would see a reddishness. And so the neurons are firing. When you see the green, and then they stop firing, but they actually get a little bit tired, is what the idea is, and then you see the opposite. So, again, part of high wiring, which we're going to learn today in this class.

This is another example. I, I gave you the answer. So now stare at this nose of this person. If you can from everywhere in the room? We're gonna do the same thing. Like, do you have hard wiring for faces? Right, stare at the nose for a bit more, and try not to move your eyes from the nose.

And then I'm going to switch to the next slide. You can Target what you see. So, what's cool is this researcher did this for synthetic faces? And it happens for faces, but also for the emotions of the face. Okay, so we'll see if this works. So you see anything different?

Right. So, so if you didn't see anything, it's super hard, especially if you're not in front of the screen or on a computer screen. If you adapt to? Male or female as well. So, so? You can see the opposite. And this is again you're wiring part of a circuit you're looking at.

A female you're looking at a male, and you see the opposite because they're wired somehow through your development as a kid. So? Um, you guys can flip and hit this. This is. Some newer technique I put on the slides that if you want to look at it's extra and I, I throw this everywhere into the slides so.

The reason I started out as a neuroscientist back in the 90s was when I started training was. I try to understand what neurons do and how all these neurons make our perception in the world. Right. As a child, you're born. You experience life for the first bit of years, and this wiring automatically happens.

Right, there's some weird kind of nerve of developmental problems that happen that mess up with this wiring. But on average, almost 99.999 people percent in the world. The wiring gets wired properly. Right, everyone can walk. Everyone can perceive the world. The retins get fired in. You can do this After Effects.

Um, and so my reason is, how do we do this? How do we go from? What we're going to do today. Talk about neurons to the perception. And I don't know the answer that? Right, there's a lot of things. Even as neuroscientist of 20 something years, I don't know, because?

We don't know how the brain is working. We can talk about ABCD areas connected together. We don't know how they make this perception of the world, so this is super cool puzzle. And of course, perception to actions. We talked a little bit about that with our examples here. So?

Just like I did in the first class or the first slides, we're going to talk about nouranotomy by the end of today. You'll know a little bit more about Anatomy and by the end of the course you'll. For sure. Be able to describe this to any of your friends.

All right, that these are neural Pathways. These are brain areas. This is a red brain area, a yellow one, and it's cross connecting across the corpus callosum. You'll learn all these terms.

We talked a little bit about this. Right? Let all these disease processes do. We did this. Um, earlier. These three diseases are basic electrochemical transmission. Across neurons that being disrupted somehow. Guys, we didn't talk about Ms. So, when we talk specifically about neurons? The neurons have a myelin sheath on the long axon.

And so, when you do something, the action potential goes to the next neighbor or Downstream really quickly within three or four milliseconds. In Ms, that myelin Sheath or Highway it gets clogged because the the packaging gets damaged, and so it's like you're trying to get here to your from going back to 400.

And there's too much traffic. So, now the signal takes longer, and so your normal processing is disrupted. And after the motor system, you're going to have motor problems if it hasn't. In the happens in the visual system, you're going to see or not see fit far. Okay, so we talked about Parkinson's disease.

It's a dopamine deficiency. And epilepsy is abnormal stimulation of circuits because of pressure. Because of tumors or a weird wire. Um, Alzheimer's disease. Essentially, neurofibular Tangles May mess up the transport of neurotrin. And over long term. It happens in the temporal lobe and then Alzheimer's and dementia. It's usually memorized.

Okay. And yeah. It's, this is a long time ago, but it's going to get worse and worse. Right, there is gender diseases. Affecting way more than a billion people. Okay, so now let's talk about the main track that's in our brains. Is this corpusculosum? Right and, and essentially, this is white matter, which is axon is traveling from one hemisphere to the other.

And we call these things a fiber tract. Because it's a whole bunch of axons packaged together, going from one area to the other. All right, so it's like the highway 401.

Cerebral spinal fluid bathes the tissue. Right and and? You can see it here in this cloud. Right in both hemispheres? It continually circles circulates. Uh, it circulates around the tissue of the brain as well. It pushes the brain. It provides nutrients, removes waste, helps maintain the blood-brained air barrier and.

The fluid is actually made up in the chorus plexus. In the third ventricle, so. Now in here. Now what can happen? And all of us if I put all of you in the scanner? Your brain would look like this. The ventricles. Are pretty small. They're the black part that's filled up with cerebral spinal fluid.

In a case where there's cancer. The chloride plexus has a cancer that makes it bigger. And of course, it's going to produce the same amount of tribal spine fluid. So, just like the person in the back said, there's gonna be pressure in the brain. This produces too much cerebral spinal fluid loops.

It produces too much cerebral spinal fluid. It puts pressure on the actual brain tissue by squishing it. All right. So, this is neural development. So, this person for sure, probably had when they were younger, had problems with development. Right, and they would see this. Uh, hydrocephalus happens sometimes, and, and I don't know, the reason because I'm not a medical doctor, right?

This is just the example where there's too much cerebral spider. So the anatomical terms they're easy to to learn and remember? Um, anterior, and posterior, ventral, and dorsal, are ways of Direction where I could say, well. The frontal cortex is interior to the. All right, so I'll be using these terms just.

Because that's the way I talk with. You're talking about your anatomy. And you will learn it over time.

Not this one. So this is another picture of the brain where rostral and collar and other examples of saying this. So I might say the parietal cortex. Is? What would I say compared to frontal coresight? The prior cortex is on a lower buster. Yeah, cuddler. Posterior to the frontal project.

Right console. Over time, you guys will learn this. Right, and it's just kind of a direction knob. It's like a Google direction for the brain. Now, what's cool about the actual brain tissue from different brain areas? So, if I was looking at, say. The motor strip here. Therefore, or this broadman area for?

Is what I was talking about at the first slide, where you'd be stimulating and putting a number to try to find the motor area, the hand area of the face area. Right, so? The motor areas. If you look at this, there's different layers, so there's six layers you don't need to know this in detail.

There's six layers of Cortex. Some do inputs. Some do outputs in terms of connections, and if we compare. The visual cortex to a parietal cortex or sensory area. Area 4 as example is super large. Okay, it's super thick in this layers, whereas layer four in a almost mortar area is super thin.

The idea is that the sensory area has a very big layer for because in visual cortex, the retina, which sends all the signals to the brain. Through the optic curve, synapse is eventually in layer four multiple different layers. Therefore, Alpha or beta, and there's lots of processing that happens there.

Right. The two eyes get put together, so the binocular cells by the time you get to motor cortex. You don't care which eye the signal came in. All you want to do is process. Where am I going to reach out and grab it? Right? So the filtering happens early in Visual and somatosensory in an auditory as well.

But then once you get to the motor area, you don't need a lot of input signal. You just need to know I need to reach there. Okay, so that's an example of the thickness of the layers, which is not that important to this lecture. The visual cortex and its connections you can imagine are super.

Uh, largest is speculated map based on the anatomy that we knew at the time. So, a lot of the times, I'll show slides of the brain even in the first slide. I showed you last week, and what's interesting is, if you slice up the brain with? They're Imaging different slides, so this loose line here would be shown here, and this is called horizontal or axial slice.

This one in the yellow plane would be a dorsal view, so I showed you this to highlight the corpus callosum this area. Here, we're going to talk about it. And then the orange slice. Is like slicing, uh, like a salami or something like that? Right, and that's called a coronal shape slide.

So you'll see these views, and I'll be saying, oh, this is so special of you of the human brain, or or a migraine, right? That'll help you orient yourself. And this is an example of a brain as well. The different views axial horizontal sagittal, the center of the brain.

This is posterior left and right is obvious for you guys. Okay, so other directions I already mentioned this at the start. If I'm stimulating with the electrical paddle at the start of the bus to stimulate my motor area, I'll say this is stimulus. That's on my cortex is contralateral to the armies.

And that's again hardwired. Which you'll learn in time, right? So, these are some of the directions people use in this this world. Contralateral ipsilateral, so that would be his hand. Is ipsilateral to the students that I'm putting on my breath? Right? Unilaterals, one side bilaterals, both sides proximal or distal, are just directions.

Okay, so two of the major subdivisions? Are the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system? Okay, so. I'm sure you've heard about the fight-or-flight response. At some point in your life. Right, if there's some stimulus like a tiger ran in the side door here? Right, we're gonna hear it.

We're going to see it, and we're all gonna flee. Right, and that would activate our sympathetic system. Right, and the sympathetic system is, is the fight-or-flight part? Right, it's going to make your eye your eyes dilate so you can see better. It's going to make your heart race so you can run better.

And it has a it's going to slow down digestion. Because it's going to put all your resources in that path. Right and then? The opposite is the parasympathetic. Where it's a rest and digest idea. So, it's pushing stuff to now rest and digest, and it does the opposite.

So, now I'm going to jump into some of the brain regions that. Are super important, so we talked about heart disease and we talked a little bit about. We've talked about stroke. Stroke is a really big one, too. So, if you get a stroke down in your medulla oblongata?

It's going to be terribly bad. Because there's so many things jam-packed in this park. So, this is a view of the brain from the bottom eventually right. Of course, the brain is extracted out of the. A human skull, and it's here to show what the anatomy is. And so, we're looking at the pawns of medulla here.

And there's 12 cranial nerves that are coming out that you can see, except for one here. Edit and the medulla has a lot of important things it's involved in attention and sleep wake cycle. But most importantly, it does respiratory and heartburn. Right. So, if you have a stroke in here, you can lose neural control that's hardwired for your heart rate, and you're breathing outputes.

And if this happens, and you're not close to a hospital, you're probably going to pass away. Right, because it's super vital for success. Doing anything right? So? It's super hard. We're not going to talk about the medulla probably ever again. It's more just to give you an orientation of what's super important.

I've never studied anything related to heart rate or. Heart rate or respiration? We started measuring with. Watches like this, so we're hoping to my colleague from Algoba, Carolina, was in the lab. You might have seen some of her work. She bought a whole bunch of these, and we're gonna hope to put these on for people with Parkinson to measure heart rate and activity.

Across the next class before the dance class after the dance class. Uh, to be able to see other things because we don't know. I was talking to someone earlier. And we don't know if the fine motor control that gets better after a dance bus. We don't know if this is related to something that is happening in their brain or their body, or that your brain just gets excited and it.

We know that it goes away at some point. Benefit for the rest of your life. It depends in some constant, we don't know so. So, we want to measure that with this, and I'm sure everyone. A lot of you have gadgets that measure things. Right in your body, so we're going to try.

So, the cranial nerves you don't need to memorize? Uh, but it's super important in terms of understanding how the circuits are so. Um, smell, optic nerve. You can see them here. The ocular motor nerves are super important, so if you had an issue with your eye movement system, you would not be able to guide your eyes to where you want to look.

And so it would be a terrible disease for you to have because you wouldn't be able to get heat like your. You could drive right. If you couldn't control your bus, so there's three cranial nerves of the of the 12. The number three, the number five, and the number six.

The three, the four, and the six that are involved in eye moves. One does horizontal movements. One does vertical movements, and when together does torsional. So torsional movements, which you probably never heard about, is when you tilt your head. This way, your eyes counter rotate in the head a little bit, so that's called torsion, right?

So, what's super important is number five and number six, a seven. They're involved in controlling your face muscles, feeling things related to your face and chewing. Of course. These are super important. If you had a stroke in one of these, you would not be able to do part of your face.

Be hard to speak, hard to communicate. Vestibular cochlear nerve that the ape is probably the worst one to have a stroke. Because you quit walking. You would get nystagmus. Uh or vertigo, so in the sadness is something like. Your eyes beat in your head uncontrollably. And it can happen from a virus or a tumor.

Um, in my case, when I in the 90s when I was a grad student, a PhD student, this happened to me after I worked at the bar one night. I woke. I woke up in the morning and I had an assessment and I, of course, studying eye movements, of course, attributed this to a tumor in my brain.

So, I called our collaborator, who is a neuro-ophthalmologist at University Hospital. I said, David, I have fast speed to the right. So, imagine, like, I can't actually fake this, but but if you move your eyes this, and then it comes back, it continually happens. So if you Google search and stagmus, you'll see it and, and it happens, continually.

It happened to me for about two days when I woke up in the morning I threw up. And my girlfriend said. Uh, you mustn't trained too much last night. I'm like, I just worked at the bar I had, like one drink, and I came home, but somehow, during that day, I picked up a virus.

But luckily, I. Met with. I called my neurologist. My roommate drove me to the hospital, and they did the neurological test and the neurological test tests all these things that nothing wrong with my face. Nothing wrong with my hands strength. I could move my body. I can turn my head.

I just had this nystagmus, so he said, oh, it's probably going to get better. Right, we don't need to put you in a CAT scan right away. But for some reason, I think they did. I did get a CAT scan at some point, but the CAT scan couldn't see anything right, like cats can't see very big tumors.

Probably the size of. Maybe bigger than a couple feets? Or something like that? So they put grape sauce. Right, and so a tumor could have been. Right here, pushing on the eighth cranial nerve. And compressing the firing going through, and that would have caused this imbalance because Amplifier exactly the same rate to keep your eyes fixated on cell.

Right, the the idea of vestibular ocular reflex is whenever you move your head, your eyes counter rotating. So when you're driving, you're walking your vestibular system is doing its job. You don't notice it, and hopefully the rest of your life can be everything. All right, and the rest of them are are pretty simple, like.

Taste, heart rate, digestion, swallowing tongue movements are super important, but this is super hardwired hot stuff. I haven't seen a paper that ever described radial nerves as a function of doing some rehab or something gets better. I think it's pretty high wired. And, and you modify the the synopsis Upstream to change.

And if there's damage in the circuit, it's really hard to fix. And it doesn't fit by itself. Paint on. There was super important. This is another picture just showing all the. And the effector is. Where are we at here today, two o'clock? Yeah, we got like, some time I'm gonna end around 10 30, yeah.

You don't know, you just go from the hardwire. Yeah, you assume based on the behavior. So, so the virus potentially attacks the nerve, it travels like how everybody to be that day or the night before. It somehow travels to these vestibular system buyers and attach one side of it.

And then it goes away. So in my case, I lasted about two or three days acutely. I think the second or third day I went to work because I wanted to show my supervisor like two days. I got this, like we, we used to go to, uh, their Ophthalmology rounds every Friday morning at, like I'm seeing time, like 6 30 in the morning years.

I'm going down the stairs. And. We would see people who have a struggle. And their eye is doing a twitching in one spot and neurologist and a neurosurgeon. And whoever else was there, my supervisor, who was an engineer. Um, they would come up with the answer, like where the problem could be in the circle?

Based on the hardwiring, they know. Right. And, uh, so they said it's probably gonna go away. I was terrified. My supervisor saw this. He's like, we should put you in the MRI and get a picture of your brain and then follow you across time. Of course, we're experimenters. So they did.

I signed my ethics forums and we filled a thing? We did a little experiments, and uh, then I had on his supervisors, my supervisor's laptop. This was around 9567. I took his laptop to our collaborator, and we actually looked along both mirrors and couldn't seem to. Right. So then I knew it, wasn't it for sure?

And that was maybe five or six? And the symptoms last. Probably a week or two. Um, I had to sit on my supervisor's. I was trying to read with page. The page would look like this. So, I'm reading, and I'm not moving the page, but my perception because our eyes are moving a little bit.

But perception was that this was happening. Right, because my eyes are. I'm uncontrollably moving, so the world is moving. So, if you want to try to mimic this, I don't know if anyone wants to do this experiment, so you close one eye and on your other eye, you wiggle your eye.

Touch the side of your eye and wiggle it, and you will see the world move. If you're looking at something, the world will move. Right, and the world will is because you're moving your retina artificially because your finger, the motor commands to move your finger, are not connected to fix your vision.

If we, if I suture it, we all did this, and you soon turn your finger fuse to your eye. And every time you moved over the next few weeks. Even actually that one. And the thing that would teach your eye. To adopt it because your fingers moving is the cerebellum.

Cerebellum has more neurons than in the corset, so I tough question up there about. Yeah, about this. Like, maybe something else, but maybe it's the cereal, the brain. That's how people get like male with palsy when there's. Yeah, so Bell's policy happens on one side and then tack the other cranial nerve.

I heard it's related to stress. And inside. Children around like younger ages, because sometimes goes away. But I don't know what it is. We have a stroke. Is it the oxygen that's not going to be your brain, then stops the calcium? Yeah, Strokes happen for many reasons it could be a lead.

It could be a tumor. It could be something that happens that breaks the system at some point in the wire in the circuit wherever it happens. Whatever wiring is underneath, that gets damaged by the blood or the bleed or whatever is happening. Uh, that disturbs a normal neural function, and sometimes it clears out.

And in rehab. In the physiologists, not physiologists, uh? Call physiotherapist. Helps. With some medicine. Right, so if I had a stroke in my left motor cortex? Near my head near the top of my head, it would just drop my leg motor function wire. So my life might be super like loose and passive because of the damage.

But if I went to rehab for a long time because my stroke was here, but we gone out a month later. Maybe I'll regain some control of it? But I might not be able to do everything I used to do. I, I will speak to believe that because I love my squad, but even like an example of motor function and adaptation.

I twisted his ankle somewhere in the 90s, early 90s, and I used to pitch slow pitch. I don't know if anyone's played Solvage. Those voltage is a fun game for old people and social. Super fun, like Hawaii, but. The I don't really have a. So when you're playing when you're pitching, there's a little Mound at the pitching mound, and there's a little piece of like wood in there, and as a pitcher you want to like, feel that spot, and then you push off.

And it does a lot in terms of like being after, and when I twisted my angle, I used to be able to pitch whole games and have a few games. I couldn't even hit the plank. And I lost, kind of like the fine motor control feel of this place.

Be able to throw the ball perfect. And I never really pitched none of my friends. Let me pitch because I was terrified, but before they remembered me like you used to be a good picture, but you got hers. So, so there's a lot of adaptation and motor things that you can fix.

Sometimes you might do something, and you never get regained. All right, and so. I don't know. I'm fortunate that none of my family or friends ever has trolls and I have to like hang up with them and watch this happen and. Are around to watch how much they would cover.

And I don't know what the function is in terms of, like after a stroke in the sun spot, 90 recovery or fifty percent title. I'm sorry, but good question. And I invite questions from you guys. This is great. Yeah. This may sound. I'm not sure if it's true, but I've heard like, if you're just looking, find out that.

I don't know about this. That's a good question, uh, maybe if you could shout out other people might know this answer? Um, it's like in the matches from, like I've heard, I'm sure it's true, kind of like attack. So, so the one thing is, so the eyes have a I don't know.

Let's have a picture of this. No, I don't so. The eye, the cranial nerves for the eyes are the optic nerve. And this, you can see part of you can't see it here. So, the optic nerve, the optic chiasms here, these this one would travel all the way up to the eye at the back of the eye would go in.

And. The immune system would travel along that pathway of this nerve, so it would be using that as a roadway head. But I don't know how we did it. Because I've got a new person at all. Sorry, but we can finally answer it to this. All right. So, yeah, we're on the cerebellum.

So, I gave an answer what the cerebellum does. A Tunes fine motor control. So, in this example of me having the sadness? It went away after about a week. And we don't know if whatever attacked my my eighth cranial nerve on one side and Disturb the balance and created this.

We don't know if it was tuned by the cerebellum. To fix the problem or the virus just died away. It could have been. I had a little mini stroke in one of these eight cranial nerves. Not resolvable by the CAT scan or the MRI? But my brain just extinct and the thing that would fix it would be this the cerebellum.

And the cerebellum was great. It has more nerves. More neurons in the cerebellum. Then. The whole of the courses. It's tightly wired, tightly packed. We're not going to go into the organization. If you Google search servalum and OG stain, you'll see a beautiful architecture that echoed through all the things.

It's beautiful in terms of it, has a homunculus, or has a very structured hardwired organization. And we have a great group at Western who studies the MRI and fmri and the cerebral and Penguins interested in it. And lives in London to work. Super cool! And most of the pathways that go in and out of the cerebellum come through this ponds, so the main connection.

Is the pawns which you can see? Right. The inputs and outputs go to the cerebellum. And come out and come from all over the place. Right? Okay, so when we. We were talking about the cerebellum. Just anterior to it is the midbrain? And the pons is part of this maker.

Right, and when the pause and the midbrainer when you're looking at that? One or two of the cool structures that are relevant for our Behavior. If the main thing I'm teaching you guys about over this, this lecture really. This is like giving you the the neuroanatomy map of really the hardwired stuff that we're not going to modify in the class by model, right?

So in the midbrain, if you have a stroke, it's going to damage a lot of things again. Worst thing is, you get damage and inter superior colliculus. You gain a damage in the superior molecules. It's going to disrupt your control of moving your eyes and your head to a Target.

So this tiger who came up there? If we all heard something? Our inferior folliculus. Would tune our spiric locations to orient to that. We don't even know what it is yet. We just heard the door open. We heard a roar. We would know all. It could be a threat this fight or flight response.

The coincidence is the thing that's going to orient our eyes and head to that. Right, if we have damage there, then it's going to be super hard to move around the world. Super hard to attend the things you want to attend to sounds or touches on your skin. You wouldn't be able to orient to.

Because the neural commands that should go through the clicklist can't anymore. So that's involved in the rapid eye movements. It's a pretty small chunk of brain. And, and again, it's pretty hard watered, but it does a lot of cool things in terms of attending the business. So, so if, if you were?

You know, told in an experiment? Like the start of the day, just looking at the center of this green flag. Right, that inputs was my voice, telling you, oh, look at this flag, but the output neurons controlling your eyes. The commands are coming from the severe blankets fixate on the flag.

Right, and so you have neurons firing in the caliculus infixation zones to keep your eyes on the target. It's cognitively there. It's not from the external world because the flag wasn't flashing. The flag wasn't doing any magic on the screen. It was just. That, right? So, it's very positively demanding.

Calculus is involved in that, and it's of course connected to the cortex and the cerebellum. So? Let's see. Yeah, and so the next state, which is part of this kind of. Orientation through the brain kind of bottom up, and we're supposed to most important. Uh, I think is, the hypothalamus is the next thing after we now know how we move our eyes around the world with superpowers.

We know how to like, we know all the basics. We know the fight or flight to keep us alive. Ready to eat digest? Now, we're going to talk about the more important things that hormonal related things. And they're controlled by a group of nuclei called the hypothalamus. Equilibrium and a homeostasis homeostasis.

They regulate our food intake, so I'm getting hungry. I usually eat it around 11, 30. In the morning, um, they regulate our fluid intake. Right? So it's a, it's a keeping a balance in our brain, and these are again. Neural controlled loops and tell us, oh, I'm thirsty, I'm hungry.

These are low level things they are born you're born with. They don't modify much after development. Temperature and hormones, right. Poor sexual behavior happens later after development when we, when the hormones starts. After development. Um, but what's cool is the one I like a lot, and this Fireflight or Diana rhythms?

Is? I don't think I have a slide on the cap. Is the circadian rhythms? Right, our brains and all our predecessors have evolved. With the Sun and the sun regulates our daylight cycles. Regulates our seasonal Cycles. We have some ducks my daughter bought during coven as you saw online that people were getting Ducks, so we still have these ducks.

That's if you, I don't know if anybody knows how long had that lives like a peeking time? So they live with 20 something years. I have no idea when I bought these little chests that were so pretty quiet. So, we have a little duck home in our house and the Ducks lay eggs in the spring a lot more than later on in the fall.

You get a duck egg every day from the females. And. They make sure they're getting them in the early spring, the summer, and that's regulated by the daylight cycle. How much light comes in their eyes when they wake up to when they go to sleep? Right, and it helped regulates us too.

Right, and so what happens that you've heard about this in in the past? I'm sure in the winter say living in Vancouver, what happens in the winter in Vancouver Grove? Anyone know this, like it was very clowny? It's less light, say imagine. In Sweden, there's almost no light in the winter.

Yeah, like, seasonal affective disorder, yeah, seasonal, effective disorder. So, the daylight cycle is somehow linked to so many things. One of them is linked to our Moon, right? So, this is an early control. And it's nearly controlled by this little circuit. In the hypothalamus. Daylight cycle, I think, is the most important part other than the super important things like eating and drinking.

And sexual function of reproducing. The daylight cycle is super important in terms of important things in our daylight cycle. Um, and we talked about this earlier. So, Alzheimer's in the net shot? So people who have Alzheimer's in dementia. One thing that happens to them is they get off risk.

For some reason. And so they wake up in the middle of the night, walk around. Their rhythms are off, and so one of the therapies I write about I, I don't know. Anyone has this? I read about it that they give melatonin to people who are in the homes who have dementia, you know, soccers to help them stay as?

To help them have this recognition. But now, it's exogenous. It's outside. They're taking it as a pill, and it helps them sleep. So, that's a super important thing. So the thalamic, which is right beside this. Okay, so the finite nuclei group of nuclei do sensory motor relays? So, we were talking about looking at this tiger at the back of the door opening.

We heard it. Right, when we look to it? We're going to use our vision to in our cortex, say, recognize. Oh, this is a tiger. But we're walking, they're walking in with someone who it's on a leash. Right. So it's not a threat. Right, if it was roaring and and it was like somehow open the door and came in right, it would be a threat, but if it was walked in by somebody, we use our visual system and say, oh yeah, there's a tiger.

I recognize it with my object recognition in my temper logs. I know that it's with someone, so it's not going to harm us. Right? Maybe this is a joke Joe is playing about? Right, so it's not a huge spread, right? This is all done by our Portugal and a visual processing right, and a lot of it goes well, most all of it goes through the sensory motor relays and the lateral genocide lights.

For sound, and then all the other. So, the Miguel and the so the lateral genoculids is super small nuclei here. The medialist for sound here and the rest is really for sensory motor of the hands and arms and the body for touch signals. For temperature signals of the body and for motor commands going out of the cortex.

We talked about. Contra Lottery down through the valleys. So, in Serena. And because we're moving away from. The midbrain and the pons here. Up here, it has more things you can modify. Right? So there's an intentional signal that happens in the a gating signal that happens in the thalamus that you'll learn about in future classes and Sensation perception.

If you get a certain Professor here? So let's, let's do basal ganglia. And then maybe take a little breaker in class. So, basal ganglia is the circuit that's involved in bargain. As you talked about last week with? With simran and Marcus specifically. And so it's a group of nuclei that are.

Within air. Your shoulder, deep down. You've got the card in here. Got the contamin, the air, and the Globus pallidus. These three and they are involved in tuning motor function. Right, and if there's an imbalance just like the imbalance I mentioned in my vestibular virus theory that happened to me?

If there's an imbalance in the firing left to right? That's why Tremor begins. All right. So first, one with Parkinson may have a Tremor, and the Tremor is something because there's an imbalance in this group of nuclei. Border command that is being sent from the cortex is not being echoed perfectly to the muscles.

There's an error somewhere, and it creates an imbalance. The motor system thinks, oh, it should be here, but really, it's here. And so, the Tremor is an error correction that's continually forever. All right, so.

So, we talked about Parkinson's. There's other diseases at the basal ganglia. That I have no experience with, but I've talked for years, and so hunting tends and Tourette's disease are two of them. Huntington's has a super strong genetic length. It's, um, I was talking to one of the students here.

Of Huntington's has a very, very highly comorbid cognitive impairment. That sometimes begins before it. But usually at the start. It's like at the same time. And, and because? The the Circuit of the basal ganglia is super well known in animal models and. It's so well known that humans can go into another human brain of a person who has Parkinson's I mentioned this last week, but I'll mention them again.

They'll put an electrode into part of the basal ganglion. Put a current in continuously forever. And modify the circuit firing to make the person's Tremors and symptoms get that. And so, to be able to do this is amazing because you have to stick an electrode with neurosurgery into a very specific spot of the brain.

Be able to do this. So, it's a beautiful tool, the circuit's well known. It's probably the best known circuit after I move the circuits. In the brain. So, I mentioned these things. Now this part olympic system? We talked about mood and depression, so this is involved in this Circuit of all these brain areas.

Our vaulted mood recognition. Right. So the big dollar is the main one. And, and this is a zoom picture of just the corpus callosum, right? So the corpus callosum is here, so we're missing the frontal cortex. We're missing the temporal cortex here that's taken off. We're missing the parietal cortex here in the visual cortex.

It's all powdered away to zoom in on the the important players here. Right? So you have the amygdala in blue? And it sends synapses. It does this processing since synapses up to the cingulates. There's neural processing happening, and these Loops help regulate. Emotion. All right, and uh. We didn't talk about this yet.

Later on, in in the cortex, um, when we get to the cortex, and we talk about frontal cortex. There's areas of the brain that's very close to this circuit here. That are potentially involved in depression. And so the same thing I mentioned to you about? Um, using an electrode in a human who has Parkinson's disease to alleviate the symptoms.

You can do the same for people who are treatment resistant depression. And where you put where they have put electrodes for the last. I would say almost 18 20 years. Is in a? Place right here, the sub colossal gyrus. In this region where Eastern options come here and? Little triangle here is neuron synapsing to it?

I pass shortcut or the Olympic system circuit that's involved in. And they do the same thing with an electron in there. They turn the current on and and some people I think it was 60 of the people, their depression, which wasn't treated by. Was it fixed by medication or C, um, cognitive behavioral therapy, or any other way.

It probably lost their jobs as as if the papers they had, they're essentially not functioning. When you get the surgery done, they put electrodes in. They put the currents in. It's controlled by a battery pack here and a remote they get way better. But only in 60 or 70 percent of the cases.

It's not 100 proof nothing. Nothing is because because you have the complex lay in the brain, which I'm giving you a flavor of. Today, that's what I'm trying to do. So, when we jump to the neocortex? Right, we have these blobs that you saw you saw the the bands and stuff and the other one.

The dura was removed. In the first slide. We have gyri or the bumps and the salsa are the kind of the folds inside. Okay, and of course. There's different pictures of different variety species. You can get these off the this brain Museum. They're super cool to look at. Uh, what's neat is the ratio of frontal cortex to Total cortex.

People think is one measure of, like intelligence or. And humans. Luckily, are near the top. I mentioned there's different layer thicknesses. Right, and, and this is another example of it. The middle layer is bigger. The middle layer in the motor cortex is almost gone. All right, so it's just the way it's organized and put output into different areas.

Um, defining the lobes we've already kind of done. So the frontal cortex? We have the temporal cortex in green Bridal cortex and then visual cortex. And so the last few slides I'm going to jump through are just saying the big functions of these areas. All right. And this is another term, an anatomical term, the longitudinal fissure.

Everything is Loosely packed. There's no neural processing, except through axons that travel through this corporate schools. So nothing is connected when you separate the two hemispheres. Except for the corpusculosin, the head to your commissure and the posterior commissure, which are super small. Hey, on broadman, somewhere around the turn of the century 19th century, he labeled all these terms.

He numbered them in the order he or in the order he studied. Right. So, so area one and two and three up here and four were the first ones you study. For some reason. It's easy to access in his cadaver tissues that he had, but that's the number anything else.

So we talked a little bit about Wernicke's area with the air 39 or 40, broca's area 44 around here would be controlling speech. So, if I had a problem with my Brokers and moriki's area? Depending on which it is. So, if it was worthy's area, when somebody asked me questions, you raise your hand.

I wouldn't be able to understand your. To me, it would sound like gibberish. Right, if if I was? Having Frankie's area, I probably lose my job as well. Right. I could do probably be research, but if I had a problem with my Brocus area, which is the last hemisphere here, I wouldn't be able to produce speech.

Right, that would be terrible. So, it's a huge interplay between these two, with many, many connections between them. Okay, so the next thing is, is, I'm going to tell you about the cortical organization. And one word that I might use in the future is this homunculus, so it's just a way.

Researchers in the past map out the motor cortex. And they put current on, and they saw what was happening. And luckily we were lucky in Canada that this happened in Montreal. Father Penfield was one of the pioneers of this stimulating parts of the motor cortex nowadays. People use really fancy equipment to maple the brain for epilepsy, surgery, and stuff pre-surgical mapping.

So, this is one of the cooler slides I really like so, so the electrical stimulation, if it's in the orange area. Right? So this is the central sulcus this this sulcus here. If it's in the orange, it's in the motor area. So, if we stimulated say, like, I was showing on the left hemisphere around here.

You would probably activate something related to the pictures. Since the current was high enough, it would make a contraction happen. So in humans in all of us. If you went to two or three Labs at York here within the center provision research. And worked in their Labs to be able to be a subject or worked in their lives.

You could stimulate your friend's brains with a TMS path. Non-Invasive. It's done all the time and the way they map out the brain is they put a paddle. Here they have the MRI done of your brain and they move it. And they can see it on the MRI as they're connected with the computers, and you stimulate it.

And you can get activity of your hand activity with your shoulder activity of your foot. Activity of your face, but you don't want to go too lateral because you could stimulate the muscles here and get contraction of the muscle. Right? So, so it's a cool thing. You can map out most of this.

Now if you move posterior to the other side of the sulcus. You move back and you stimulate anywhere on this green area. You will. Sensory tingling or or like? Numbness, or I don't know if you could feel temperature. I've never been a subject in this, and I don't have the TMS tiles in my lab, but but you might feel things on your body map.

Corresponding to that part of the month. Okay. So this is kind of the organization. And, and artists have made homunculus caricatures to give you flavor of this. So when you see this and you see the tongue really big, and the finger is really big, but say that the calf really small.

What do you think this represents? And we look at this. Yeah, like, like the number of like neurons that are like devoted to like that area? Yeah, yeah. So, so I don't know if you heard that at the back, but the number of neurons devoted to that area, she had lots of neurons on your tongue to feel things so you can feel like Heritage on your tongue or in your mouth.

But if you put that hair on your back? You wouldn't feel it because that receptive fields on your tongue are super small, so you have lots of detail. Able to feel them same thing with your fingers or fingertips. Have lots of? I want to call neurons dedicating hardwired to field things, and this is evolutionary redone because we as I wrap things properly off the trees and eat them properly.

And, and that's the way our brains are set up. All right, and when we get to the visual chapter. Um, you'll see the same thing happens on the back of the retina. You have this area a lot of detail, and then you have areas where if I'm looking straight ahead, way out here in my peripheral red nut, I can see my hand waving, but I won't know the color of my shirt.

Because there's no purple. Let that. Cells dedicated to coffee, right? So, it's just hardwired, which you'll learn over top, might learn everything in this class, but you'll learn what you'll need to do this for, like, tests, and discuss stuff. So, the somunculus is a character of the amount of neural processing for those areas.

And now, so I don't know if anyone's ever heard of this term called Phantom Lem? Anyone want to guess what Phantom limb is? Yeah, so it's like after like an example here was actually the moons are like, even though there's no life there, you feel like, yeah, yeah, so, so if you didn't hear that at the back, so Phantom limb is when you lose your effector.

So, in this case, a leg. Uh, it was in an accident, and you were in pain during that process. Where, and your leg was damaged or taken off? Um, the painter on still are part of the circuit. Neurons got severed, and now the circuit is misaligned. Right, it's over a series of.

I don't know if it's days, weeks, months, or years. Imagine on that part of the map here. Where the leg is removed. These neurons are looking to still talk to neurons. They want to be part of a circle. But the effector is gone, so there's no inputs anymore. Sensory, there can't be any motor outputs.

Because the effector doesn't have any muscles to control. So, what ends up happening? Is neurons adjacent to it so the knee, the trunk the genitals would encroach in, and you would feel pain in those organs or you feel pain and ignored? But there's still pain. So, it's a terrible thing if somebody had Phantom limb pain because there's no way to deal with that.

And so, if this good book, if anyone wants to read it from someone from Montreal? On forensic. Where you talked about in the 70s and 80s, how people would deal with this. But again. Super tragic. They don't have this time. And it always is from some sort of accidents or bullet worlds or Wars that Neuroscientists learn about this stuff.

Yeah, I've heard of also like chronic pain conditions with, like, no underlying cause or anything like that, that basically like, sort of like, I don't know if it's like the same, like cortical Pathways, but like, sort of like mirrors the effects of the like, Phantom limb condition, where it's like just extreme pain in a specific region, no cause whatsoever, and they can't like they can't.

They can't deal with it. The idea is that you have chronic pain in in some part of your body, and there's no cause of it really. So it could be a misaligned circuit for some reason. Who knows? Um, let's use the example of hand because I don't know how to like crunch my foot if I lost my leg.

So, say I lost. In your example, we lost my like, left arm and a farming ax. And so I was in pain when it happened. And so imagine the the Phantom pain is happening with my hand, and my nails clenched into my thing. And I, this limb doesn't exist because I lost it, so it's only in my brain and I'm stabbing my own hand, and I am extreme pain, but I can't fix it because I can't open my hand.

So, this super cool researcher, uh? Bs ramat Chandra. I can't remember what p stands for. I put a mirror here. So the mirror was high. And he had it so that. This is the limb that's gone right and the mirror. Which show in the position of the world with this mirror box.

It would look like my hand was here, but it's a pure image in my hand. Right, and I would look at it and see it, but it's through this mirror, but it's in the body space of where my severed limb would be, and he just had people open their hand up and close their real hand.

That's still there, but because it was in the body map of where the body is, he's moving the paint. This mirror box there. Super cheap! Right, like it's just a box of hairs, but but it. It relieved the pain in the Phantom leg of person's punching their hand. So, this is now talking about more cool, cortical things that are.

Now, we we went up from the rain. Stem up cranial nerves medulla cerebellum. We kept traveling Superior through the brain, and now we're in the top of the brain. And so, when you get to the top of the brain, the sensory motor circus, the prior cortex, the frontal cortex are loops within it.

And, and you can modify things with this, so this mirror box is an example of using vision. Interacting with the sensory border system. And this is probably happening in frontal cortex, visual cortex, but nobody knows for sure where it is. But it's having a great jig on the disease burden.

Of a patient with chronic pain from a family, which is super rare. All right, we get to talk about this in the disease Reserve. But Parkinson's disease we talked about today. Anyone know the incidents? Marcus mentioned it. It's like one percent 110, 000 people again. Right? Cognitive line and Alzheimer's and connected is probably way higher, maybe four or five percent.

I have no idea. So, is it right? There must be around one percent, maybe two. I can't remember it. Right diabetes way higher? I don't know what it would be like, probably in the teens. Heart disease. Is super high. Okay, this is probably the biggest killer still. After cancer or don't make cancer, heart disease, cancer, and addiction hepatitis.

I don't know what this is, I mean, since other, but I know, like, in my own light way, those reacts. I'll write that a recovering addicts, but they're always addicted when you talk about addictions to other things like smoking and alcohol and. Yeah, I think it's like screen time.

Like it's, it builds pretty fast, right? Um, so, but all those type of things are different parts of the disease that affect. Outside of what we've kind of talked about, right? This is like the low-level hardwired. You're kind of born with you, modified a little bit. But the frontal cortex is the last quartz, the the we'll get to that let's.

Let's jump through this part here. I talked about that. Sometimes I jumped on. I jumped myself here. I'd skip this, so we got the visual cortex. And parietal cortex. The frontal cortex modifies these low-level circuits. With their servants. Right. The visual cortex has very hardwired step up until the visual cortex.

Up until this Cal Corporated. But once you get past these levels, so this is hardwired. Almost all you would have this representation. I can map it out in your brains if we went to the scanner here at. At York and Sherman by flashing checkerboards to you at different levels.

So, if my checkerboard was only in the left visual field, it would activate your right contralateral visual person. If it was in the right visual field, it would activate your left motor cords, and that's what visual cores and this was hardwired. So, this is super simple, I mentioned. With this homogulus with the hands of this culture and the tongue really big.

The analogous thing in the visual cortex. Is that in the visual field, if I'm looking at you at the back there, what's your name? Shot, so I'm looking at Sean. He's falling on my phobia, which is super small in my retina, but it has the most neurons organized to do it.

It has color has super high detail. Otherwise, you couldn't read. You couldn't do anything. Um, but out here. I don't see faces. I kind of see blurs in people. But when I'm looking at Sean, my phobias pointed at it. My phobia is this where I'm fixating, just like when you were looking at the the green?

Flag at the start of the day. Right, and then the organization has less and less neurons organized to do it. So if you look at a whole swath of Cortex? Right. So along this cuneius. A third of the cortex is directed to such a small part of the visual world, because as odds are super highly hot in the phobia to do this detail.

Right, and so that's what you see. A small part of the visual world, this little part that's black, has a huge representation. Because in the formula, they're super packed and to be able to decode letters and words and and objects and and color and the faces of seeing faces that you would recognize or don't.

Um, you need this detail. This is the way it was hardwired in animals and us. If you get damage, it's super easy to figure out where the band is. Once you understand the organization. Right. So, if you have a small stroke here from a lead, you lose part of the visual world.

If you're staring here. Right? If you're staring here, and this is where your damage is, you lose a whole quadrant. All right, if your damage is the whole left visual cortex along the calcare end, you lose the whole visual field, but you'll have the other one. Because your other hemisphere is fine.

Right, so it's super easy to do this. We're going to do this in chapter six or something or seven later. So the parietal cortex does super cool stuff. Um. It's involved in so many super cool things. Um, which we're not gonna like go into, but we're gonna talk a lot about it over time.

The biggest thing is, it does iterating a vision and touch. To integrate the world. Right, so we have damage in the right parietal cortex. And you have symptoms like neglect. Your impatience. If there's a strong patient who has this, they will neglect a part of the world, even though they have intact visual world.

So, it's an integration of vision in the private vertex, because that little number today. Right, it happened in the left hemisphere. And it was around that working period. You're going to have all those integrating the words and sounds together. All right, so damage. Is? Really, it depends on where in the cortex in the parietal cortex about to rise, where, and it happens, the stroke?

So, tempo cortex is super important as well. We talked about an auditory vertices object face processing. Um, memory. Emotional processing is part of the input to the limbic system. Limitic system, just kind of buried underneath it. And the frontal cortex, which is the last one we'll talk about, is doing this kind of executive.

The last cortex that is organized somewhere in the late teens is what the idea is. It's involved in long-term planning, guiding movements. Uh, judgments. That's why people my daughter only got to learn to drive when she was 16. She got to drink like 19 in Ontario now, yeah, 19, 1881, back.

Right, and these things are put there by the government to help organize your lives so that you don't harm yourself. Where we was driving at 10. It would be a disaster because parental cortex isn't there. My little 11 year old would love to take the keys and drive around my nine-year-old likes shifting.

When he's sitting beside me, so he knows how to shift my shifter. But he can't reach the clutch yet. So, anyone here know how to drive a standard yet? Okay, that's gone. It's super important still, but. There's hardly any cars nowadays that you can buy that are stick shift.

So, one example that I'm sure you all. Is anyone here not heard of this case finish gauge? Everyone's hurting on this, like in every first year second time. Um, the brain is somewhere, not the brain. His skull is somewhere in Harvard University med school or something. If you want to go over, see it if you're there, and I, I went to Harvard once for a conference, and I didn't just go see it, but I wanted to.

It's on my list, and so he had problems with he. He was a certain type of person that job. He was a railway worker, and then after the damage he was different. And the difference is because there were circuits that were damaged that messed up these emotional circuit and messed up his essentially personality because circuits were damaged.

Maybe he brought the kid. Less thinking about the future. And more thinking about, you know, more root things. Like, I want this. I want that. Right? So? The frontal part to integrates everything. Right that you do, and you want to do, and you want to be in the future.

Um, so that's interesting. We're going to skip this part. Let's just go to the last slide, please. We're almost done, and I went way too long. I wanted to end a little earlier. But I got talking about cool things like Phantom limb and. Y'all. When you get me started, it's a disaster.

So, the cool thing I want to talk about that I didn't touch on, which will probably end up doing this week. Is looking at how neurons do stuff how they connect, so we'll start out there. But let's end on something we didn't talk on.

So, I put all the blood supply vessel organization, which we won't really need to know. Um, in here because of migraine. So, does anyone suffer from migraine like in the class so? This room is disaster for me because I, I have issues with the resumes. So, some days I might put my hat on, which is in my bag.

I didn't need to today. But migraine people have been studying for a while now, and there's a group of neurons that are specialized. In the red map. The detect one? Right, and they're a part of a circuit that people are trying to figure out. This is from about 10 years ago.

And I read it because I have mic right, and everyone in my family has one right, my daughter did. But when her cycle came when she was like 12-ish, did you sit here? But I was talking to someone about driving on a motorcycle and my daughter used to go on the back of the motorcycle to go get a massage in the next little village.

Where I live up north because it used to help from islands. Just relaxing the muscles around the neck. So? So, what's cool is? There's these circuits today. We're in now, but but there's these circuits. And these circuits are hardwired. Some of them are modifiable. Like the example of the Phantom that with the super tool mirror box?

Um, and we're going to talk a lot about that. So next week, we'll start out with looking at. The connections of the brain. And how they connect. What happens to what what this thing is in their own? But neurons. Any other questions before we leave? I'm here for a bit if you want to ask questions.

=== Sep_17_at_8-34_a.m..txt ===
Our heart. These are driven by those low-level range downtime circus. There's still no circuit lead controlled the neural circuits that tell us when to go to sleep or to eat, you know. The hypothalamus went to drain. That were essentially automatized to our brain circuits. That's where we are. Um.

How long does it take? You talk a little bit about personal context. Last time. How long does it take for that to come? Like the last lobe of the brain, but how long does it take? When is it fully development around 20 yeah 25 percent? Yeah, yeah, I don't know if anyone ever said the actual number, but they say in the 20s, yeah, late 18 and early 20s.

Um, for you to understand the reasoning and higher functions, and you all know this as the other people reporting from the University. But these circuits are particularly developing, and it's the last circuits that sort of get laid down in the brain. After 25, can you learn anything so? Of course, you.

I'm stupid enough to learn snowboarding. Um, 2017, so I was like in my 40s. And I took my four kids and we all bought snowboards, right? We're learning. Right. And then, last year, I decided to. This is like, from my Parkinson's experiences, from my people who I dance with.

They push their reins, and I'm like, why shouldn't I push my brain as a 4-year-old, because I know my brain is starting to shrink? Right? So, at 20, in the 20s, your brain is fully developed as a person, and you push your brain. And you're going to develop that.

Don't push your breath. Those circuits are not that itself. Right, and so people who have dementia. Or develop myopogative impairment as they're older. Are people who are pushing their right? Right. And, and maybe they're in a like, I was a machinist at high school at a university. The machine has the same bloody thing like continuously the whole day.

I mean, cuz I haven't been doing this since I was 17, but I remember doing it right, like now, probably 20 000 times every week. So there's been there like that, you know, you don't want to work like this?

And so this is a good example of a part, and so the auto part would be. Do you guys know anything about the circulatory system of cause?

You don't have a circulatory system in your car. What happens?

So, you need to cool it just like a rings. We talk about the venture pose. Vegetables in the brain lead to nourish and and doesn't do really temperature a little bit. It does. That has to circulate around the brain to bathe it and nourish it and take away the garbage from the car.

When it's too hot, it'll seize, and the parts will break, and you'll break your cylinder head. So there's a part like this that is part of the coolant system has a hose attaches to it. It has to do machine perfectly so that the hose fits in. Right, so these products that came from another part in Factory or from another Factory?

Hit a button. Get another brain, lift it off and dump it in and do thousands of the times. So the first, like half an hour of my? Life as a machinist that I would like all. Holy shit! I don't want to do that. I like those weren't there. My family, like, works in that kind of stuff.

As a kid, immigrants from India. And, and so this is the jobs they got, and that is exactly work, not a doctor work pressure marker. You work that Firestone as well likely. Right. That kind of job and career path from the 70s and '80s doesn't existence. That you all know about?

Now, but yeah, I kind of didn't exist. 20 or 30 years now. Right. First, kind of movies I talked about over Asians, destroy it like terminal.

And that's an AI. Right, so? So? I don't even know where I went. Why? I told you about this.

Yeah, I got some circuits right circuits in it and stuff. So, this circuit that I trained within, like, maybe half an hour to an hour. I did this in. Somewhere between 1989-19. Right? So that's like, it's a long time ago, 45 years ago, and I still remember it as if it was like yesterday.

Okay, remember the red button to push? Like, I remember the smell. Of the forklifts that are burning cocaine. Okay, push it out. Like, I remember these things, so your brains do in a circuit, and sometimes it doesn't. In a maladaptive way to deal with that word means. So, malino is something that it does, and it keeps it, but it doesn't help your behavior in the future.

It may like actually harm your own future. Right. So, one example of a harm or a maladaptive thing. Now, that is, like circuit or rain. Um, happen. What would be an example of that? What's maladapted to our behavior? Be a person in society and whatever you want to do.

Right? You all live in Toronto, but what else should?

Yeah, even well for sure. Most of those people having problems yesterday.

So, these are validuction circuits that happen somehow. And we don't know why, so I'm going to tell you today a little bit about circus. Probably, this is the only class. That I'll never can't really talk about Americans, which is okay. Uh, it's super cool positive to me and it, like, bathed my head.

It makes all time. But today, we'll talk a little bit about. Um, circuits, a little bit about neurons. And I think what I might want to do at the starter classes together. You guys wake up. Is, do you kind of like, you know, the quiz that you would have done, like last week, and you did do?

And then you got into the groups? I'd like you guys to get into the groups. I'll give you something I brought some green paper, and I'll pass it around, and so once you get the groups I want you guys to do the same thing as you do for a quiz, but in only send me one paper at the end of class.

Or any, anytime, and what I want you to do is. Draw like a circuit? As best you can in your group, and you can cheat like, look at the box below. It's like anywhere, and describe like a certain kind of at least three neurons. Right and and tell me about it.

Just grab one for your group and then pass them on. And I want you to describe a neural circuit as best you can. Uh, pass those to the back. And getting your groups, and so on. One side of the page is gayburn, what your name, issue number between improvements, and you're, like, yeah, you're like, Daniel, like, yeah, I agree.

As well as, hey, I find a group, and, uh, what. A circuit is a circuit circus. Hi, I'm dear. Nice to meet you. Yeah.

Um, so three neurons, I mean, like? It's like you would have like a, for example, like, you know? I sent like a, you know, a sensory neuron relays like to a like a neural circuit in the brain that then you know, would relay back to like a motor neuron to, like, facilitate movement.

I mean, I guess we can try and draw that circuit. Yeah, showing a good one would be like. What you just said, I feel like it goes to the brain and gets processed. Like, maybe a visual thing, like looking at a laptop. Yeah, then you recognize it's a laptop, and that's like the relay, and then you.

Do motor, and like, type it down. Maybe something like that? What I'm just wondering is like, how, like how the information is processed in the brain to, like, then, like, you know, relay the motor output? Yeah, yeah, it goes into, like, gray matter, like the outer cortex, and then from there, I don't know.

It goes into the frontal lobe, and then it eventually goes back, but it all happens like in the CNS. Sensory neurons collect apparent information from the body. So, yeah, sensory neurons collect the information from the body. They connect it to intern neurons. Those are the neurons like that. Those are in the brain, and then they pass it on to the motor neurons that then facilitate the movement.

Yeah, so that's two neuros. So all those interneurons that's well, so sensory, inter inter, and then motor and motor. Yeah, but the interneurons are like, where all the integration happens. And that's, like, you're thinking and all that like that. It would be like. Sensory. A little longer. Then you kind of go like that, right?

Yeah, yeah. Is there any other like more? To it there definitely is. I mean, I was gonna say, like, do we need to get artistic about it? Yeah, I'm gonna need to draw the synopsis and all that. I can draw, but not neurons. Here's what I was thinking, maybe, like?

Maybe you can draw the connection of like the axon to the next axon terminal or something like that? How are you feeling? Oh, I'm cooked. I'm so cooked. No matter how much our dealings I feel like they're just, I was the first two lectures in this class. I just joined, so honestly, they were really dense.

They were dead. Yeah, I enjoyed the material, but it's, it's a lot. How great I would do, the learnings I'm doing both, but I'm really just focusing on like characters how much I should focus on this shit. Okay, yeah, but I would get that overview again somewhere, you know, references.

You need to look at it like this. It was an experiment, like in the textbooks that I'm like, okay. Other than that, it's quite a bit. I'm not really, unless it's like related to Arkansas. There were a few. Maybe drawing, like going through the eyes, like the visual signal, yeah, and?

It goes to like? The except a lobe and then gets integrated, and then you use your hands to type the motor. I don't know how to draw that. I'm not an artist. I'm trying to conceptualize that and just seems so complicated. I'm just trying to find the chapter on like, information consolidation.

Did you go through the entire textbook? Yep.

Which I didn't like record the entire time.

He made the dots on his eyes hard.

Describe a neural circuit. Maybe you can draw like a little? Yeah, there we go. No, no, like that. I honestly looks like the textbook. Like, I see what you're going for. Yeah, this was your laptop. And then, should we like, these are sensory centers? The thing is like, you could just go on like so many different levels like you could talk about.

Like, you know, the like, release of like neurotransmitters across the like, accidental log, and you can, like, like, how, like, detailed, do we want to be? I just, I don't even know where to start. I think you know what, though, that's just a symptom of knowing a lot of information is.

I don't know what I don't know because I haven't looked at the entire textbook. That's fair. Yeah. Just trying to draw a brain. Have you been here for all the lectures? Yeah. How are you feeling about it? It's interesting. It's cool, absolutely. Yeah, I think I need to focus more on the things you should focus a lot.

I feel like all the exams are going to be faced. Now, the way that I do, the textbook is all like. I'll do like chapter headers, and for all of the headers, I'll just go and copy them down, so I have a general idea of like the structure of the chapter, then I'll go through and I'll copy the keywords that are like listed and bold and underlined anything that's like, italicized, and seems important.

And then, once I have that, I basically have, like, you know, that's a good thing about achieve is that they do that already. Yeah, like, rot, sort of rough, like textbook notes, that I can then just sort of go and like, skim through and read through it. And that's, you know, some sort of supplement and augment that with like details if it needs to be explained forever?

I'm sorry, I didn't get your name. Oh, my name is, uh, awesome, Adam, um. That's fair. I, I remember you. It's just the name. So, Jays, yeah, um, do you want to join our Discord group? Oh, you have a group for this class. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you too, sorry.

Oh, I don't know, um? There that I was talking to, and some of them figured out to add you guys.

Str. Ridiculous fucking, Romanian monster, you're Romania, I'm I'm a mod. Man, I'm so many different things. Oh, for now.

Yeah, exactly. I'm sorry if one of your last names was Williams or Smith.

What's your last name, huh? Coconuts, my last name's almost?

I'm Pakistani by the way. Pakistani, yeah, I was born. Yeah, I was born in India, India. Okay. Okay, out of here. Okay.

Igles. Here, but both my parents are from Ukraine. Oh yeah. Yeah, I was also born here, but. I was born in Ohio, Ohio. I got some cousins in Ohio, it's so funny. Oh yeah, they're like, how'd they end up there? And they just came from Parks from last year.

Oh yes, I'm great and. They went to Ohio because that was, like, the only place they could find jobs. Yeah, where it's more affordable for them here. They hate it there because it's Ohio, yeah, it's like, and I think, like, also, I mean whereabouts in Ohio, are they Springfield is, yeah?

Are you? Are you guys both in Psych? Yeah, I'm in Psychology. How about you guys? Yeah, okay, thank you all she should have received from them. Yeah, I switched. I was doing undergraduate that is hard to do that in Ireland. Yeah, you can do straight out of high school in Europe.

Like, oh yeah, so I did that for three years. I was thinking about having a psychiatry, but you know, like, for all pogstones, I guess you know, uh, when you do medicine, it's not your choice. Like, yeah, you know. What's as funny about that, cuz my brother's a doctor.

And he did the same thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Two minutes, three minutes, three minutes. Okay. You can spend the rest of the course just answering this question because people do this for their whole careers, right? So, I guess, I think that's that. William is the point that, like, it's just so convoluted, and there's so many different laws to it that more interesting is specialize in research, it appears, and so it's better than look at the laptop than you think about whatever the hell you're going to type or whatever you're looking on the laptop.

Maybe you're on E class or whatever the, that's the Eastern. And then it goes into the motor of neurons. Which are, you know, and then effectors? Yeah, that's a big SARS. Effector is, uh, the muscle itself. Okay, that does the effect, you know, the motor effect so? Like them.

Yeah, you need fingers like the motor neuron, like directs like, you know, for example, like this, this joint, which is like the effector to yeah, it's like the effector muscles like, okay, yeah, it's the effect, you know, because yeah, the cause and effect, right? Like, the cause is entering your eyes and all this, and that in effect.

Okay, yeah, I see. And then, that's a really easy laptop to draw. I could draw well, yeah, so if you look from the side enough, it looks just like that right angle. Yeah, I like it. Picasso, yeah, my art teachers. Interneurons are the reason. Yeah. But usually, what we learned, like when we're learning, like the reflex Arc.

But, you know, when we're learning about the reflex spark or whatever it's called, you know, the the reflected statement? Oh yeah, like with the um, the knees. Yeah, yeah, but like, and yeah, it can be anything like heat like that. It's really simple because it just goes to your spinal cord, because that's way quicker.

So that's why they just show that one and relay on your own, but usually like. This question was decided specifically. I don't know. I just that's exactly. Okay, this would be the synapse, right. Like the space in between, you have, like, whatever is in between, like this, you have, like, sign ups should be there in there, and who knows, something like, accidental lock here, yeah?

Yeah, there's gonna be a lot of signups around the eyes.

It's, uh, is it? Motor neurons that have more dendritic spines? I don't feel so bad, I think more information. So for? With other crewsbury, Texas. Um, so I'm just. I just turned into, like, I. I've like taken Twitter courses in my first two years, and I think I'm more like a trivia for you guys, but um, I'm finishing my my only I, but IGA semester, yeah, uh.

First class stats to bring your robots. Hey Max Anatomy? Yes, they gave me like 39 elective credits. I think I can be finished by next year. Look after my third year, but I want to go into like Master's PhD in a while. What do you plan to do? I definitely.

I want to pursue sex. I have to give a faster. I'm not sure. It's like, yeah, it's a lot. It is a lot like, it's crazy, you know how it's going crazy? Yeah, yeah, I was thinking. It's just like where your ride is. The easiest thing to think about, yeah, but I don't know when I just ended up feeling.

Another Masters. Yeah. Like, right now, I'm thinking about doing clinical psychology. I don't know, exactly like, could not have any neuropsychology. Like, I'm almost. Yeah, we both want to do neurosaic. Yeah, like I'm I really wanted to get very good signs to maybe do research their. Sounds like we all are sort of like similar.

I think it. Just let my parents feel like I'm gonna do for them like this, but as long as they're willing to do, that's probably why they went so hard. I guess your parents are hard for Christmas. Yeah, that's what they want is okay, um, but?

It was in the University College Court. That's like near the south of Portland. It's like three hours enough heavy accidents, but they're really nice people, way nicer than Canadians. They're actually, you know, nice. They're not just San Francisco. Yeah, play. You know, kind? Yeah, they're actually, really good, probably because they drink a lot.

Grow is drunk, like, hey, let's hug, yeah, uh, uh. Like a teenage girl. It's awesome. The student accommodation is so much better than they're. Like, so highly established. I'd say I've been wanting to go there. Yeah, where is this? I'm talking about, like Europe, in general, like UK as well, like, uh, what else, cuz we have like a deal with the EU, right, like Canada, like you can go.

And yeah, that's how, like, there's this thing called Atlantic Bridge. That's like the sponsored Canadians in Ireland, specifically, and then come back up okay. Are probably gone. Yeah, should we just like the washroom? Here is really weird floor. Yeah, I thought it was going to say something else. There is one on the second.

As well, but like, really great. I used to go years.

All right. So, uh, anyone want to volunteers what the basic like? But their Discovery is in your group.

I know, I'm saying anymore, all right. Yeah, go ahead. I mean, I kind of reveal the research, but I think like, Mr Monroe, so it could kind of just like find that work of neurons that passed a message. But like, why we're on to the other because? You know, transmit messages.

That's the reason why people to move my help with my ends, yes. That's super great! Example and a description of it, anyone know the most basic neural survey you could describe to your like parents? Yeah. Would it be the nature reflex? Yeah. Spinal cord behind your arms and then back to the motor neurons and the effector.

Yeah, so it's like, here is this ligament or tendon. Has a detector protected light? And because it gets hit by a little Hammer. Which I probably can't do myself, but. Actually, let's go and, and so that that. The length of it changes the firing rate that's based, so imagine.

Imagine. You have this muscle, and we have a tendon there. And it sends signal that is the smile board. Into the spinal cord, synaxis. Send something to the muscle. And when the length changes. So, the fire rate might be so at level a where there's no change. The base fire can rate might be like four spikes per like.

Second. But when it gets stretched with a hammer. Looks like Tom Hawkings. Right, the fireman might go from. This is a my Baseline.

Like, always terrible. Right, and B the power might be. Right? And the action potentials travel down this. Synapse here make this one higher and make this contract and change the length. How fast do you think that happens if anyone's just felt that in their life? Does it take me?

And for how long does it take? Or the bounce of the leg. Once the hammer in? Should be a couple milliseconds because it's through electrical circuit, and it doesn't even go through your brain. It just goes through your spinal cord. Yeah, so this, so this, uh, I'm going to draw this bigger?

All right, so this is a neuron and where you see this in the examples today, right, and the traveling once? This video is a threshold. There's an actual potential that happened. We're going to describe this the next few weeks, and it travels along this. And this takes a few milliseconds, so two to four five milliseconds.

And there's a thousand milliseconds in a second, so it's super fast. Super quick has to be super fast. So quick. When people are older, like this man developing Parkinson's disease? These circuits. So, if he has the next circuit coming back? These circuits get a little slower because age or disease, and then people fall.

Right. The worst thing is an older person. I know 28ch like 70s or 80s to fall and break ahead. Prognosis of? Life after one year is burial. All right, so your grandmother or somebody you have to take care of them is really like, make sure they're mentally. They're sitting in the hospital for like a month.

That's disaster for? So, so this is kind of the circuit. That's the knee-jerk reflex, which is a great example. It's a little hard to do, and sometimes if you're saying, hey, uh, Dad, sit there. And I'm going to hit your thing. And I'm going to make a goal, but if you don't have to still to do it.

Then, it's kind of unveiled, like, experiment that you look like, oh, I'm like, no, but cool. It's really dead. I didn't keep getting super easy to describe, so that's one example. It's a great one. It's in the book. It's in my notes. Um, they even have another example. Yeah, I guess you better want to be to touch a really hot stove.

Yeah. So, uh, touching a hot skull, and what happens if you touch your hot stove? Or whatever effects there is, like, melting, right. Because these reflexes are there the nature. The withdrawal reflex. All these reflexes are there to save new residue from being, say your apparatus or Superman, right?

Not making a job, right? It's the basic behavior of every form. Yeah, knock knock. Which is a behavior? Right, so? But it's kind of an umbrella game. Out of any other examples in your groups or anything. So, I'm going to teach you why. Today, it's super simple. It's reader.

Does anyone know what to be neuron are? Google search. It so? We are super simple. I have a feeling I showed you a bit of this, so if you look at the finger and you move her head, can you do this the class? Everyone look at the fingerprints on any finger and just wiggle your head around like you're moving it.

If you were on like one of those ballable like heads? On the car, right? And can you still see your fingerprint the whole time?

Right. So, so you know the rate, you move your finger or your head. Now, move your finger the same way. Do you see your fingerprint? Right. It's still you, like, you see your favorite brand name for Tanger at the same rate, right, same velocity still, your brain doing it right.

So, why do you think there's no problems? Why can't you see your finger in like this? Why you can't see the finger? Yeah, is there? Like, my name Jay is there. There's like, maybe something like going on in the brain. That's like allowing us to like, sort of, compensate for that movement and allow us to.

To like, uh, like, retain the picture? Yeah, that's exactly what it is. Yeah, um, any other comments or questions? Or point, so the this one where you're moving your head. You're looking at a fingerprint or anything detailed, like when you're on your phone and you're watching. Right? If you're 80, you're not going to be able to do that.

Right, because you're probably going to walk into a bang or fall or it hurts, right? Even if you train for 60 years, you guys are in your 20s or maybe 30s, but there's one of these if you train for 50 years. Doing this walking with your phone? Right, it's not going to help you when you're eight, because these reflexes slow down.

Right, you're not going to boost your like skill set doing this. The stimulator, author of the reflex. We're going to not talk about their distribution system at all in this class, but it's a system of organs that is designed to keep your head. And eyes specifically on target. For deviations of head body, whatever in a car wherever, and it's between our owns.

That's it! The end neuron is just like the nature, and instead of going to the muscles here. It's going to the muscles around your eyes. Sorry. A condition. I forgot the name of, but any moving objects. Become invisible for them. Like anything, that's moving whatsoever. They cannot say that can start to bump into them, but once it's not moving, then they can't see it.

But if, like, you throw a ball, they won't see it until they stops moving until it lines, like, is it? Yeah, uh. A nice name. So, where are you crazy man, uh? I think it was. This is probably the 90s, but I think it was. Rhl. That's all. And I think it's like 19.

Something around the 90s, and in this case this patient, so I'm going to draw my brains. My brains are terrible. Oh, this is the, so we learned a little bit about orientation. So, this is the left lateral view of my brain. Of course, terrifly cartoon, right, and, and this is the back of the brain where the acceptable and visual cortex is.

And this is the parts of the brain head matures. These circuits mature over. 20 something years, right? And so there's an area of the frame. We're going to talk about a little bit, except at all. And it's centered here. And there's one on the other side. The other side of the brain.

And it's called area Mt. Video temporal. And yes. Receive signals. From the local process to many synapses. And its main job is to decode motion. And so this, this group. Here again, that's a positive thing, but I know it personally. Something like that probably did not, right? Maybe it was weird, and he's part of that paper and.

This person had a legion. Okay on the left or right side. I don't remember that. Because I read this like decades ago, and that person, if we were like. Say they were walking around, and they're come to a street. The cars that drive by they don't see the motion.

They just stop action. Right? And especially One Direction, but I don't remember which direction it was, and that's exactly what you just tried. Yeah, it's super rare. Like, I've only seen two or one or two papers on it in my life, right? Because the person has to have a stroke or some sort of damage and takes out a super small circuit.

This may be the size of. Sweet, and by 10 millimeters like, it's super small. Yeah, and they're like, right adjacent to it here. There's an area called MST, which then codes Direction, so this codes directional movement so. A little bit going simili moving this way or this way. And you can see where I'm going.

This way or this way. I'm stimulated Arts or balls or stuff, and then this is very empty. We're going way too deep here. Sorry, it's just fine. And NST then puts us together into Optical packs. So expanding, so imagine, like if you put your space over to the stars that are coming towards you, that could be Xfinity and then contract.

And otherwise. And so he's sensing up to be, but because that's damaged a person sees no woman, right? And it's super crazy. It's not a reflex. It's, it's part of this circuit that we're talking about, like the new artist for me to walk and say things and not. Lose track of where they are.

Yep, the reflex fix that. That's three neurons. To get to Mt and MST, you have. From the eyeball. The back of the red nut synapse to an area probably here. In the balance. A lot of genocide. Then synonym, accept it all, and then multiple synapses to other places to decode, like form and objects and direction of emotion and color.

And that's way too many neurons to keep track of. Like, when you're shaking your hand. Right, the same speed you move your head, because it's more than three knots. It could be like 20 year olds or 40 neurons, and so in the three neuron Arc, the VOR. Has three neurons, one in terms of vestibular.

After we got the concealer outrides, the settings are doing now's. I'd like to enter our audit really, and then once the muscles in the eyes. Three neurons, and if each one has a delay of two to five milliseconds. You're somewhere on the order of four to 10 milliseconds away.

And you guys all know what delay is? Maybe not because you're younger than me, but when I was a kid? He didn't have it here at all. Right, we're supposed to stay in cell phones. And. That started to happen. We had a thing called dial-up with the hard one.

And it had this handshaking thing, and the delays were super slow. Right, like, super crazy stuff. You could never watch a movie on. The guy left three or four. Right. And that's because the delays were so low, like, so high, right? Like this? You had no, like, refresh rate really quick.

Right? So that's kind of the analogy you have, like old school stuff, which is like the cortical stuff and you have these reflexes in your brain stem. Right, and this is actually not investigated to your brainstem. But it's super fast. So does this help like, and so this is a circuit.

This is a behavior. There's nibular ocular reflections of behavior we all need is don't have. It can't like walk to school. You can't really do anything. Maybe a disaster, and so I'll show you an example. I wasn't gonna now because we went down this path. It's kind of cool.

Okay, so this person. So this person to zoom in of? I plan to call a person that's negatively who is? Uh, getting the wrong homologist. Somewhere Baltimore, like a John Hopkin, and he's written a whole bunch of books. Clinical books on, I believe, that's the stuff super cool, so.

I told you we were fucking around needing an egg. You were just fingerprint, even if there's a problem within the singular system. Your eyes will move without you walking. Right, so? This neuron sends out a signal over here, had rotates. Right. Connect to that travel. It drops down and cracks.

If this thing has a virus or something like that or a tumor pressing on it? It's going to change the vibrate. This area, your eyes move, even though you don't want it. Right. So that's what I'm going to show you now. A disruption in this Twitter on heart, but only on one side of the right.

And this poor lady. Sure. Can you see that on the screen there, like? Your eyes are kind of like beating.

And it usually happens when a person's in the periphery. So the person's probably looking at the neurologist fingers? So, what the person would perceive? Like, because this is your high experienced this once. For the virus that I mentioned. Um, a person would perceive the world generate at the rate that their head is.

So they would see the whole world. It's like you grabbing like a paper drop, but it's like you grabbing your screen and wiggling it the same rate as your head. Because. The apparatus revision is in the eye. And normally everything's corrected for it, right? So, in this case, it's not corrected.

So, this person has perception of movement of the world, which makes her dizzy and is called vertigo or whatever disease it is. And it's called well. This in this case is called word of these games and settings. But you see that meaning, right? And this is a disturbance on her in her neural circuits.

So does this make sense? It's a useful exercise. We did so far today. Before we like, dive into like, Electrifice something. I think I think it's super important to like, have you think about the problems and think about it?

About certain things so?

Okay, so. This is probably the only thing I'll talk about apartments today. Was that the end of the dance class and we sit here? We stand in a circle and we say we're grateful to the teachers and the teachers like acknowledge this after the hour today. And then we almost hands, and we do something.

Right. And to me, it's like. But roll the hands and we kind of pass the pulse and kind of stay together. Something right with the attention to the day. That's cool. And I'm a lot of people I get, but I think it's a nice analogy of like connecting. Right, as a group socially, and it might have inequalities to it, I don't know, but.

So, these are the main names of the neuron. All memorization. Um, I didn't talk about one thing that's super important, right? So you got the the gang rights, the cell body, and the nucleus. And then you got. The spot here, which is the integration volition. Essentially, does math, and it computes.

The voltage across all the plants, and then it says yes or no. So, actually, every neuron is the decision maker. It makes a choice whether to send a signal off. Or nonsense. Right. So, what's an example say? This was part of a circuit in the brain. It, just learning had a problem, and it fired all the time.

What could happen in this poor person? I guess it was part of service two years. Yeah, it could spread it continually spread. Throughout the whole Reign because, like, contracting the muscles, make the person fall down. A couple years ago in this class. There's analogous class like this, but not this exact class.

And so she trained me to do what I want to do. Luckily, I never need to do it. She never had, um, like, I guess electricity and everything. Yeah, yeah, so that's the same thing. Yeah, and, and if we, if we have so around the point where it turns purple to Green in this picture?

This integration zone is the decision maker to say yes, I'm going to send a signal down. I'm going to open the gate. And once it gets to the end at the axon terminals, the signal that took two or three milliseconds depending on the length of a neuron. Um, what would happen at the end?

It synapses to something else. Yeah, like, usually a neuron. That's probably the most things that happen. It could be on a muscle like I drew here, my really bad muscle of an eye. Right, there is my bad muscle of my hamstring. Oh no, I didn't even draw it. Yeah, and so, um, you can have neuromuscular Junction synopsis.

You can have neuromodulators that modulate certain things you have many of these functions. Um, but the cool thing is. When this the synapse on the next Post and I'll pick what happened? Something that's released there. That's not electrical. What are our gap Junctions? So there are some neurons that actually electrical.

Pulse gets put to the second one without. Intermediate. So, what would be an intermediate to signal to the next one? You guys heard of neurotransmitters? Yes, okay, so neurotransmitters are chemicals. Right. So, so far, we only talked about electrical stuff. But at the end of that or the end of this or the end of this month, something gets released by his actual terminals.

And it's chemicals. Yeah, okay. Right, and so it's, it's cool. It's it's electrical, chemical pops, yeah. Yeah, so in in this case. And then in these cases, the sodium and potassium transfer along the pathway to make the pulse into a pulse somewhere. Make this pulse. So this pulse would be transmitted.

Say here and then the Venus, kind of like pointy here. And this 20 years old violence, right? So we have these things on here, and so whatever is regenerated here. And then extend this shape, and then it can be done faster. Right, but this part is the ion channels coming in and out.

Sodium, potassium. Um, jump in and out with a neuron, and we'll get into this, like next week, that we have here. But once you get to the end point here. Chemicals get released, like? Like acetylcholine or dopamine or other ones get released to that or glutamate.

Cause something to the action. Right, whatever it is neuron neurons to muscle. They're going to, like, hey right, there's some chemical that gets released, except in the gap Direction is super. Does this make sense, like? So, it's cool when you say it's electrical. But the electrical is then transferred to a chemical.

And so this chemical part here.

This chemical is why we take medicines. He tried to modulate. Right, and besides, you can eat things that get into the brain. You can modulate these. Synaptions and the idea of? Say side effect. Or what is it called when you take medicine and then you get something it's called side effect?

Yeah. Reaction to reaction like things like that those are? Reaction to the chemical is doing in a circuit. You don't want to have. Right. So, in some of those cases, they can be harmful for a person. Right, and we all know, but that's not the main point. And then, when you're describing this as like our last week?

You're describing the signal? Descartes used this cartoon years ago. Talk about signals towards the brain and away. So signals towards the grain are the sensory signals from your apparatus, like the pain reflex you need your preflex. Those are going into the brain and the spinal cord is called the brain tube.

Part of the central nervous system from our lawsuit. Right? So this is just another term he printed in the African terms. I'm talking about the New York reflex and super importance. Um. This is part of circuits that happens so. Um. For example, in the eye. So many detectors in our arm.

Detecting of life came, and if we didn't have this convergence idea, that's down on the bottom part where you have, say. We're on synaptic to two ganglions, one. Coming out of the eye. You would have a huge cable coming out of the eye. They wouldn't be able to draw us.

So, like an example of that in the world, is an owl. Values is almost all its limits to Orient to the world. It uses its A's, and it turns its head. And it hardly makes odd. So, imagine the cable coming out of the Ally to have more than us.

All right, and I can't show you this, never mind. Today, I can show it to you, like, because this convergence and it Divergence is something that happens, and it starts. Yes, sorry, this one. Never sorry, just always ask. Yeah, I just wanted to, uh, switch the bdrment on the board, but oh, b, o, r, b, o, r, vestibular, ocular.

So ocular and then refund, but if you just Google search VORs, there's no company as you. Are you sure? Yeah, I thought it's a video. So, yeah, but if I wanted to ask, um, that nystagmist I can showed us earlier. Yeah, like, is that like an example of like a valid, uh circulars, yeah, you know, yeah, it's it's full.

Yeah, so the circuit could be damaged by a tumor or something, or any messes up the firing rate and the stagnas can happen or the the beating of the eyes uncontrollably. Yeah, because the balance isn't equal across the two atmosphere to it. Right. So, out of these semicircular canals, when could it be damaged out of the six?

And it will make a bor or. The stagmus in a different way, so it's easy for like the tumor. It's some sort of, so when I was a kid? It's like a grad student undergrad. Last year, I used to go to this thing called neurophythmology round, and in the morning, David Nicole would show us like a patient, and they usually have something, and my supervisor tutors goes, who was an engineer.

But he's right into stocking World, and he just understands circuits until level. I've ever seen anyone being able to do so. David Nicole would be able to describe the thing as your Arthur mall. You should, he'll say. This is like. And I'll bring these gazing status, right, like we saw and, and he would suggest, oh, it's where the VOR comes out at the center failout, and there's a tumor summer and.

Pushing on the vestibular nerve? Yeah. And my supervisor was appreciating aside like this, right? And and then you go up the door and draw the circuit out of his head and, and he would say, no, it has to be here, because if it wasn't here, it wouldn't go past.

Right, and he just understood it at some level. And, and this is something you just learned, or he had again, yeah, right? So, uh, is that okay? Like, I know, we're getting a little off track, but it's, it's super important to understand that circuits. Yeah, it could be maladapted.

Um, this is a super simple example because. I can try to see neurons okay. I can show you why it becomes maladaptive because of whatever reason. And you see it? There could be a circuit for depression at night. Somewhere, the price he knows exists. The huge problems you don't know where it is.

You can't Target. We don't know where. Where to put my electrode? I think that the person at the same time? Right, and he knows it's coded. Like, you know how that is in the world today yesterday? It's something like one million people suffer from. Anxiety and depression. Across or whatever, seven days.

But it's a huge percentage, right? If if you could, as a student, what do you could figure out how to make ease that burden on society? Right, like everyone wants. Right? So this is about some important, not just like I gotta run for neurons and and these are the kind of questions I will ask.

The short answer you have, like, look this much on the page, but an incher, maybe three centimeters. To describe something. So, I might say, because we're talking about the VOR. I might say, well, what is the visceral operation? And you fill out this stuff and you get two markers if you get it.

Right. Our multiple choice ones that are on the test that might be like 80 or 90, multiple choice, and maybe 10 to 20 percent of your short answers, maybe a few from each chapter, but it'll be typically what we talked about in class. And like, where the questions went and and stops?

Right. So, if you wrote anything in the theater will Market it nicely, and you get too hard. But it's super simple. And that's the value coming, the added value becoming. Plus, the VOR is in the textbook, I'm sure, right. So, how are you going to know? Amongst all the like, thousands of other points.

So, this is an example of circuits. You guys did this today. These are just examples of how the circuits evolve. Um, when super important thing that we talked about in terms of like epilepsy. So, there's feedback, so imagine you have a girl on here sending accent out. And this one has a branch that shuts itself down.

Right. So this, of course, is in the middle terminal, and it will shut down the firing range to make sure there's no epilepsy at all of us. Right, I don't know whether it seems about what she is, but it's pretty rare, and it does happen somehow. In those people's brains, it doesn't shut down right, and you could be from a tumor or something like pushing on circuits that mess it up.

Right, or you can have an intro neuron this red one. That is an intermediate that is, does synapsing or that's why that shuts it down? Right. You can imagine any scenario. And it probably exists. Right, there's so many. Okay, so. So, the rest of the class, it's, it's pretty decent and Frozen.

By talking about how this stuff happens and why? And so let's just go through this. So you have a resting memory potential. So this is when a neuron is not fired.

So, neurons have processes in them that they're doing. Producing neurotransmitter, you're cleaning out garbage. Out of here, they have mitochondria doing stuff. They have lots of stuff in the South, and I'm not a cellular neuroscientist, so I don't pretend to even imagine what's happening. And I don't even think about it.

I love genetics, but I don't care about it. You'll learn the studying it. Right. So, so resting memory potential is it's a resting state, and so it might be something like a few action potentials per time. All right, just Baseline fireplace. The actual potential is pulse. That is the signal that says, I want to tell the next rest of the network.

Something is important. And he was. Right. My hands are burning because I'm touching the stove when I shouldn't right. And these kind of things, and it has to send it quick. And it does. So, we'll talk about this most of the book. When I talk about is stuff that I've studied in the last 30 years so years that I helped learn myself how to do sort of this stuff so I could do this.

I've never done intracellular recordings like this is, but this is a way to describe the action potential so you can get like a zoom in on. Right, so you use electrodes and you use micro electrodes as super fine to get in the in an axle. To this end, and hear the echo what's happening.

When you make a stimulus that's artificially is, so we're not going to have an intact human being to do this. We're gonna take out the cell or an axon or something from a giant squid.

And so they, they stick it in a dish. Right, typically with salt water. So you have the ions somebody mentioned about ions up there. And so, in the water, there's the ions you need to have this to make the sperm happen. You have a ground? It hooked up to your stimulator, and then you have something to view the current.

And that has electrode. And so this one you can put in something, and then this way you listen to that code. And you understand the biological center when they did these studies years ago. So, it's super simple, but not simple. And then, how do we measure this membrane potential so?

There's, these are just descriptions. Of something. So, the hyperpolarization is when the membrane changes hyperchlorous and depolarization. So, I think I'll draw this out. So it's easy. So, so if this is an experiment? I'll try it out as quickly on our side here to create it up. So imagine we had our dish.

We have our electrode. We have our squid axon. We have these electrodes coming in kind of looks very plug. Cool. And then, uh, what we do is with the singer there we put occur. Inject a cart right, and then on our soul soap and our empty Gadget. We measure millivolts.

And time. And what we do is we a little bit of current attack, right? So we put a little current at. And on our oscilloscope. We see a little. Right, and that's the first thing up there. I think there's one number one. Daily question a little extra bird. This is like two units.

Right, and then on our silicone. We can't go like this. Right. Let me put a little bit more. Any creatures past the brain? And this is going up to positive. This is usually in the negative. And you see this pulse and the pulse is ions coming in and out, which we'll talk about next.

Right, but the idea is describe, and this is a servant. They discovered how the action potential happens by running this similar experiment, and it's super simple now. Anyone who has a lab mostly, yeah, to do it.

So this professional of the citation is different for every neuron based on the shape and the size of that. Right, but it's always going to be a little bit more. Positive than whatever the rest is. So, the resting for this one would be minus 70. The threshold might be, say, minus 60 or minus 62.

And, and when it passes, that it's going to make this quick pause. It's the only lasts in this graph. It's about a millisecond and a half. Right, and then by three milliseconds. It's back to resting. Right, and anything. Above, the resting is called depolarization. Anything under the resting is called hyperchlorous, so you only have this little window of time here.

Wherever it was. So, if this is our resting? This little window here. Is where I call hyperbolegas.

Right. And so, again, this is like. The building Hawks of what we're trying to understand, and now not in circus. Now, we're zooming into one of the player games okay, and we're actually zooming into, like this, one location. We're reporting a harmonial part of the axon. And this is an echo that passes, so it's like you staying on the 400.

Like, there's your back. And watching the highway traffic go by. You're just seeing what's happening. Each car could be an action potential. You got transmission back and forth, and that could be an axon senior spinal cord. Up and down all the time resting your life. And we've seen this echo.

Does this make sense? Not really. Very so? I don't know where we're at now. We're we've gone way too long without a break. Um, let's do a couple more slides and then. This is another example of the resting and equalization, and this kind of magic threshold that for this specific neuron.

Right? And some of the values. And it's super easy to get next time. Right. So, on a multiple choice question. It's easy to make your properties, and I'll try not to. But like, once you understand it, and if you describe it to your neighbors like next week before class or something.

It might be easy to explain, and if you can draw it out and explain it, and label that makes an action potential is. Okay, good question. You should be able to draw it in, like, beside the multiple choice question and produce what it is. Right, and so. Hey, you know, people do this exercise where?

You hear groups, you just kind of do this. And consolidate what we're trying to learn today, and what we're describing the big, bigger circuits. And so the reason this happens. The reason that action potentials can travel down? Because there's ingredients that happen inside and outside of neuron. The inside of the environment is different than the outside.

Right. So when you make your tea or coffee in the morning sugar in it, and it takes a while to diffuse for it. The diffusion currents that happen at the neurons are the same thing. And you could magnetize them to make them move faster or bias them. And that's what the system has done.

Our brains have evolved in seawater. It's kind of like the way our ancestors. If you want to say our ancestors. Um of our essential nervous system. And so this is a zoom in. This is to zoom in on just one little part. Of the language. And I'm going to show you next, and it has these ion channels.

It has these things open, so this one's a case where an ion channel open. This one's a case where it's low. Okay, so sodium say it doesn't go through. Stuff with hands go through the sound. Experiments in animals. Once in a while, I'll be listening, so I be listening to this Echo.

Getting wrong because I'm close. I put my electrode, my micro Electrical, close to a neuron. But sometimes while you're lowering it. You might actually poke when they're on. And what could happen? Is the outside cell? Has a hole in it now that now kills the neuron. Right, so that cell now can't have this difference between the outside and the inside because it has a?

That's too bad, so things leak in and out, and that neural problem we got. Right? So it needs these receptors to maintain the balance. And we'll talk a little bit about the active balances. In fact, it's actively maintained in some of the ion channels. All right, so this is.

And again, we're zooming in on the membrane, and these are all the important players. So, if you memorize this kind of diagram or draw it out. Right. So the main things are sodium. Outside the cell, the square, the rectangle, which represents the concentration. Right, so imagine, like, sodium. It's a spoon of salt.

Right outside the cell. There's more salt. Before, so? And inside there's lights. If you look at this inside the shell, there's less so if I had a channel that opened here. That sodium channel is specific for this ion. What would happen? Right, Sony would rush into the South. Because it has.

More concentration outside than inside. But then, what's also cool is. The inside has an electric charge that's negative. And the outside has a positive charge. This is positive, and you know what magnets paws have a negative attract? Right? And you can turn the bag that you have the command that was cool.

You can turn it and then try to get it together and you feel it repack. Right? So this is what's also in every neuron and every membrane. If it doesn't exist, then you have neural transmission. And the animal or the neurons will die. They can't translate a second. Right, so it has to be like this.

Right, sodium. And chloride are more concentration outside, but because chloride is negative. You get electrostatic pressure like the mag gets being turned. So, chloride chloride channel opens. It may not rush in as much as sodium. Right, because the sodium has the force of diffusion. Because there's more concentration. It's a bigger amount of sodium outside than inside, but it also has this positive pull.

Of the charge coming in. Right? So this is super important. And I think.

11, 30 right. Yeah, so let's take a break till like 10 o'clock. 13-Minute break my mind on the law chair. Take a little break, find a washroom chat, get off the roof for a bit. And.

Oh my gosh. A very long today, maybe like another 20 minutes or something like that?

That's enough. The surrounding ions. It's as if it's as if at this excellent headlock that starts the start first action potential in the membrane. It's like the wave that transmits down through that is an electrical like pulse that's made by the ions opening the building. So, is it like surrounding ions on surrounding nerves or no, it's surrounding?

The nerve membrane is surrounded by the the fluid around it extracellular fluid. And that stuff. So? Yeah, weird, so that it's it's in the fluid, and so it's, it's equal everywhere around the world, so that there needs to be like ion flow in the unmyelin unmyelinated, uh, axon, in order for the the signal to not degrade.

The signal degrades, but it has to be regenerated somehow. Okay, you have to have, like, in the example up there, there has to be ion. Ions opening in the membrane to regenerate. All right, if there isn't. If it's a biology stuff, that's weird, because it's some genetic thing, and there won't be transmission.

It'll start, but it won't continue. So, then, in the case of sorry for for super important, like, for, for a myelinated axon, then the signal doesn't degrade. So, like then, the implication for the surrounding ions is that they don't need to. Um. Like they, they don't need to like reset the signal.

No, the ions are just floating around. Right outside the membrane. Let's go back. Sorry. Let's go back to that one that has all the ions, this one. Right, so? Even though it's showing sodium in that little box. To the to the to your like, left on the page. The sodium is everywhere outside.

Right, it's equally distributed in an equilibrium. In the fluid. Same with potassium right, and the only difference is that there's no channels here. Like, there's no sodium channels. But the sodium channels would be. Sitting outside these violent sheep? So you can imagine on the right side of this page.

There's a violin here and on the other side, there's a mile in there. And we're only looking at. Let's let me draw it again. So, the slide up there?

Making a circle?

And the violin is intake about it. So, this is a 2E view. The axon. Right, and at these thoughts, every spot. There's that open parkour. And you have the chance of sodium. Potassium chloride and there's proteins. Sitting everywhere outside there. Many equal distribution. And if the channel opens up.

So if there's? There is a stainless like watching that Lord of the Rings, right? This is a sensory order on and somewhere in the private cortex. Think we're doing experiments? Then, if there is an action potential generated, here you have sodium and potassium coming in and out of the cell.

It goes under this and then gets regenerated here. So, the idea? The idea is that the pulse is strong, it's a grades event. It degrades event, but it's still big enough. And big enough means you have this. Minus 70, it's above the threshold. Hmm, right? So, it's up here, and it regenerates it.

Transmits this way. And then, if we're measuring it here, it'll jump again. And then it degrades underneath here. And it's still big enough to then change the voltage here above threshold and then regenerates it again. And it comes under here. Strong and your grades, but it's still above threshold.

And then it generates it here again to both threshold so that it generates it here. Say it generates sodium comes in. Where the channel is opening up. And potassium leaves. That happens again, right? It's strong. It's degrading. It degrades when we measure it with our electrode. It's about threshold, so it continues at the fire.

Does that help? Drawing this crazy leg. Thing, and, and so, then, when it reaches here, it calls it's regenerated. And then, you get. Get neurotransmitter. Released to then synapse on the next one. And what's super cool about? This is like what I described there when I'm describing there? All takes like fractions into the millisecond.

Right, because the whole transmission takes 4 milliseconds. To get to here. This might take a fraction of millisecond for 10 opposed to transmit across the membrane. Right, and then this one. We'll take another four milliseconds. As if we're talking about the viewer, it has to happen fast. For you to like, walk and look at your phone or your finger.

It has to be happening fast. Like, super instantaneous, especially. As if there's a delay, you get the sadness. Be able to walk. Thank you. As you see the world moving? And at the start. There's a mismatch between the world moving and what you feel, and when I had it happened to me, I kicked.

Sushi for the night before, and it was Wasabi on my nose was disgusting. Yeah, glad I wanted to ask. It's amazingly a great battery that spun by when they did.

So the only things I remember that's unmyelinated? Is pain around sorry, you know? The example you send of, like, touching something hot? Typically, you feel something hot where the transmission is slow, so your cognition can override it. If you want to override it. So, one example I use. Right on the display.

Like years ago, I was making like turkey right for Thanksgiving dinner, and maybe I put like, I don't remember doing this, but but one of my hands had of it, one didn't. Grab these, like, handles like that are on the turkey. Like, you know, these, like, big, like pots that are making like?

It's for, like, boiling um bottles before you can this old kind of school thing. That's what my turkey thing it's got the lid. I hold it out of the oven and the door was there. I pulled it and I chose to override the signal in his hand. Wanted to drop some?

Because we were having a whole bunch of people, right? So, I took a hit on my sensory apparatus because it was slow, the signal coming from my hand to my brain that my brain could override it and say, no, don't let go. Otherwise, you're. Right, so I don't know if pain evolve.

This way to have that system, but it's the only system I know. Does that make sense? So, I have another hand here. Sorry, yeah, your hands are probably tired. Did you guys raise your hand at the same time? Um, I was just wondering. Like, if it goes below the threshold, does that mean that the stimulus has stopped?

Yeah, okay, yeah? So, so? Stay at like this one.

At this stage, it's below the threshold. Then it would stop. And then you would have nothing happen. This would not happen, and transition doesn't continue. Right, and so the example in one slide with the chemical and sexual overtoxin for the cover fish?

In the system, say here. At this part. Then it could block it. Right, so you can artificially block it here and study it here and see what happens.

Yeah, go ahead. So, um? If you have? Multiple of these? Signals that are too small, but they happen at the same time. Do they sort of add up, or they they're added to? Yeah, they're out of it. Yeah, yeah. So, if you have two small signals, they can make one.

Yeah, action potential at this stage. To sell off. At what stage would that not work? So, at the cell bodies, like any cell bodies. The transmission has to reach threshold so you can have two sub. Special stimuli integrated at the same time. Yeah, and make it past the threshold.

Yeah, but if they happen two or three milliseconds separately? Yeah, they would die off. Yeah, it has to be time for. Yeah, okay, yeah, so, like, one conflict that could happen for me is like, people can raise their hand there, and people can raise their hand there at the same time and instantaneously.

I have to make a decision you know which one, like when we just had that battle, right? I chose you because I don't know some lives that you're closer, you know? Yeah, um. But yeah, it's.

Okay, so we're almost done today. This is a lot. This is probably the hardest class. Because. The way I've kind of set up this course. Is up until we do the first midterm. These are like kind of the building blocks of learning neuroscience. Wherever odds were before you learned some of the players in terms of the behaviors.

Like, you know, we're part of Vegas. No circuits will be damaged, and we would have to artificially be doing those things right. Talk about the VOR. Now we zoom into every circuit in the right has action directions. Right? So? I don't like describing the local circuit. Um, and this is kind of what I just drew on the wall.

Right or a chalkboard there on the wall? That the signal kind of like these nodes around me, they get regenerated. And then this is an example of it as well. How underneath, there's no ion currents transmitting, but it's greater potential, just traveling. And it's kind of involved the light of the mileage.

Generated of, and it's done this to save time and save resources. Right. It's not as much ion transmission is going through and sit it in the neuron, and then. So, the sodium potassium pump doesn't have to do as much work. So, you payment. So, I imagine hanging around. That's my mind.

Has to have a lot of mitochondria today about energy. Out the sodium and push out the bring in the potassium to keep that in Balance, ready to get fire. And then this is just like some cool slides of mine. And then this last one. What happens when we go?

I showed you in a sec. But I think my dad might. Not an examples of where the diseases. The circuit. If there was a neuron that had myelin? Packed by multiple sclerosis. Tangent, where that nerd is in the circle. It's in. Por system divided in the settings. It's in the eye equipment system.

You might see what you saw in that eye movement wiggly, right? In the visual system, you might not see part of the world. Because it's damaging the visual system. If it's in the auditory system, you might not hear what is actually on the real world. You might want. Or you might get pain, right?

It really depends on where the circuit is. That takes a little detective work and a little bit of alert.

Okay, so it's a good class. It was big, you lost. I don't know where we are. I, I can't be nine minute temperature, so I might let you go fairly specific time. I love it. I don't know where we are, right? So The main thing today is you guys got to teach me something next week.

Play some news I love relationship.

No, so, so, uh? She noticed. I had the head on the box, and so she said Wayne is overcome. Should I open them? And I'd like that, it's extra. You don't have to watch all these videos from the house. I actually, I think she's so smart. Uh, any other questions related to possible?

It's nice to meet you guys. Yeah, I like spots. See you next week, man.

Okay, so.

But if I'm going?

See you next week!


