Point before next class. I will post their lectures like they're going to talk to you about. And. Almost usually the lectures before they come up. So, I'll give you guys some slides. Um, you can look at them. You can put them on your laptops, make notes. Um, but when you come to class, I really want you to think.

Right. The C is supposed to come, and so yeah, I'm here. Oh, where are you? Oh yeah, sorry. I didn't want to interrupt your time. I know, I figured, yeah, hello, everyone. I'm your ta. My name is. Um, okay, so I am in the clinical program here at York as a neuropsychology stream specifically.

So, if anybody has any questions, feel free to ask. Um, my research, I think, is quite different from what everyone is going to present. I'm looking at how cognition, emotion, kind of interact, and how cognition can kind of degrade in the situation of emotion. So, again, any questions, feel free to reach out.

My email is on the syllabus already. Okay, I, I want to ask some questions. So, so she just got in. What were your mark like ninety six, Africa U of D. Okay, so it's super high, and she's successful. She's one of the few people who got in now what?

Techniques or research. Did you do before? So I did behavioral Neuroscience. I did work with rodents. I did the biopsychosocial model pain and how social interactions can increase gain sensitivity and pressure, and how that, like, The evolutionary perspective of that. So, so, now you have. So when we talk a little bit about natabase, someone talked that they took an animal course.

She has played with rap rap. I don't know if I played the brains because you didn't paint research. It's more behavioral. Yeah, I didn't do the surgeries, but somebody with rats bite your fingers off the phone. Okay, sounds nice. So, so this, you have, like, some expertise up here.

All right, we got an ex medical doctor there. And you have a person who just got into medical, which is like, I don't know how many of the 25 want to go in. Uh, but ask your TA we're all here to ask questions other than the course material. Right.

I don't have the the students in the lab, but if you go on the web page, you might be able to find us somehow. I don't actually have them one by my page because I have my web page is from 2006. When I started here. Um, so any other questions like the cylinders online?

Um, I'm gonna does anyone know what kind of research I do in my group? And we'll look it up. No, you probably don't. There's no reasons so. Neuroscientists. I was doing fmri Imaging of the brain since 1996. It's my first picture in my brain, which is, I can't believe it's the same or not.

We can look at how my brain is aged because we look at all my scans over the years. This one guy Remy wants to do this see my brain shrink there. Um. I do now. Um, I studied vision motor system, and at some point, I fell into an area called Parkinson's disease.

So, anyone know what Parkinson's disease is? Yeah.

I'm not really sure, I'd explain it okay, but I guess it's like weird Tremors and yeah. Yeah, neurological decline usually age snorodegenerative. Um, I saw your hand up there. I don't got anyone else. So, so I, my most interesting, like thing. I'm curious about the brain, is how neurons connect and how they get disrupted.

But because we can't study neurons. Can't study like, you don't mean that's floating around in their brains right now. There's no way to do this. You have to use other tools. The best tools you can, right? And so, at some point, I did this study with dancers kind of looked up through the family and stuff, so basal ganglia is one of the circuits where the.

Neurotransmitters. Like, there's not enough of them. And so the people have these Tremors. They have depression. They have anxiety. They have sleep disorders potentially before they even have dinner. So, and anyone know how many people in the world? So someone here at Marcus will tell you how many people in Canada, at least in his talk.

So, what I kind of fell into? Around 2012 was, how would he help these people? Have Parkinson's. They have a disease that has no care. The meds just slow down the symptoms because it gives you artificial dopamine, and so we started doing this dance. So, they go to pass.

They go to music dance class. They sit together, they move the teachers, and surprisingly, everyone's happy. All right. Surprisingly, anxiety goes away, surprisingly, their symptoms from the motor symptoms actually get reduced and, and when I found out about this around 2012, I'm like, shit. This can't work like, there's no one ever going to prove that this actually works in their brains.

So, I took on that challenge to try to look at that. So, you're going to see saveron talk about how, if you dance, your cognition might get better. So, this is super important in life, right? As you get older? You know, like, everyone has mothers and fathers and grandparents.

Right, how do you help them, right? So, she's going to show you how you might help them stay smart. I call my mom's 86, and I think she's losing marbles. I, like, I call it marbles every day, so she drops a few marbles. As her days go on and then, and miraculously, she's been lately last year, picking up marbles.

Right, like I'm from India. I took in India a couple, uh Aprils ago. And I thought she wasn't going to be today or not. I think she just wanted to diet and get her a whole cow and her brother, her last living sibling. But she somehow miraculous made it back, and lately she's been picking up the Marvel.

She's smarter, like, I'm shocked. I have no evidence other than I feel like she's doing okay. And so ashkanan will talk about one thing with Tremor and stuff. Like, we're talking about the motor system. Tremors happen in the hands and the feet and the body of the face and also in speech.

His speech is super complex. Right. So, when kids are growing up, anyone have children here? Yeah, so what's the last thing a child develops? When they're growing out in around two or three? Oh, my baby is still eight months. Oh, okay, no evidence. Can your baby talk yet? No, okay.

So are you homeless, but not clearly, all right, all right, so you get to see this. It's super cool, so I have four kids. I'm gonna show you lots of pictures in my slides over the year, um. With pictures in my case and different levels. And, uh, one cool thing about kids is, you could, if you pay attention to that where you could watch them development and all my kids had speechworthy perceptions together last.

And so, for people with Parkinson's, their speech goes, and how you preserve this. There's things we do, and it looks like dance is helping them to. And then Marcus will talk about some cool stuff, and I have to leave now because I have a master's defense that was rescheduled for 9 12.

Way across campus. So you're getting a bunch of guest lectures today? Um. Next week, we'll go over this. Um, in the syllabus, I have this thing called. Let me show you. I got so many laptops here. It feels like a whole workstation, but.

Okay, so somewhere here. I have quizzes. Okay. So, there'll be quizzes online for sure. In in every chapter, we do it. But I may actually do quiz in person where I walk into class and I just hang you out. A sheet of black paper and I'll go to the board and I'll say, you know, and it'll be related to the last class.

So, imagine this is next week, I'll say. What is? Competing. Right. So, what is Parkinson? Right, and if you listen to the class before? Then, you'll know exactly what it is. It didn't come across and you don't pay attention because you weren't here. It's impossible, and you just write like straight with conscience and stuff.

I usually Market where the T will help me Market, depending on how many people in class and that counts towards your mark. Right, and if you do that, then I drop one or two of these during the year. Like, say, I do only four or five of these in a year.

Right, and I only did four or five, and you came to all of them. I'll probably drop two of them. Right, and I'm super easy when I'm marking it. It's really just to get feedback. On what you guys are learning because I don't usually get that until? Weeks after your major, and I can't put a name and a student number to people's faces until I learn.

So, that's what we'll probably do, um. I think that's it.

What I'm going to do is this kind of. This is kind of a cheat sheet for the class. Right, so? You guys all see that looks small. Is it okay in the back, or do we have to dim the lights? See that stuff hurt. So, so, at the end of the course, this looks like a a mess of stuff.

So, you're going to learn a lot about it, right? So, this is a a guy, one of my kids yawning. And this is actually before his actual date was supposed to be born. Right, and so he's gone. Right. Everyone notices to behavior. Right. It has a neural circuit. For sure, right?

People who, like, in a stroke, sometimes they yawn too much or they never go. Right, and what we're going to do is this is still a puzzle because no one really studies. If there's a group in terrorists who guides are super interested in it. But it's a behavior. Right, and we're going to study different behaviors today.

You're going to get a whole slew of behaviors. Um, relating to Parkinson's controls. Yeah, that's good. That's better so. So, at the top there, the top right, the few people who've seen trains. Can you tell me what's missing from the column on your left compared to the column on your right?

Yeah, cerebellum's missing. Totally. Does anyone have any idea what Sarah observo I'm supposed to do? Supposed to do fine tuning and motor control and other stuff. Right, so this person? For the one person as a medium. There, you probably have a cerebellum in your baby's head, and they're probably crawling around and doing stuff, right?

This woman is Chinese woman. It's a paper from maybe over a decade ago. It's in your course when I'll show it to you, but this lady had almost no problem doing any Behavior a person can do. All that happened was for between their old things as she grew up was slower, so I think she started to walk instead of at one she started walking, maybe at two.

Right, so our brain still figured it out? Okay, so it's super cool and then. That's an MRI picture. What you see down here in these colorful squiggles that look like, kind of in a brain. One of the people today, Mark is going to tell you a little bit about that, so that's called diffusion tensor Imaging.

It's a different Imaging technique that's separate within the same MRI that they use here at Sherman. Um, we'll talk a little bit about that. At the very bottom, there is a picture of a dance class at Trinity St Paul. It's a place where we do the dance for apartments.

We still do that. Um. If anyone wants to volunteer to the dance classes, we mail you later or whatever you can try to like, hook you up. Okay, I gotta go. So, who's going to go next? Okay, so I'll introduce him. He just finished his. Masters last year. And he is starting a PhD with two supervisors here at York in the psych program.

And. If it works, it works. Yeah, I'll I'll say for if you guys have any questions about the syllabus, I'll be here by the end of class. Any questions for me before I run out the door here?

Yeah, and so, uh. My great hands enjoy asking lots of questions. Uh, because it's so fun to ask. Questions and and drill these guys. They're all like at the level of. Phd almost and? They need to be tested. Scroll down, and then you guys can tell me if they did well next week.

Hi everyone, my name is ashka and I will go over the project that I did for my Master's and a little bit after that. Uh, so. Just the an introduction about all these Parkinson's. As maybe you have? Mentioned Pokemon is a neurodiversity disease, a progressive neurodegracy that can affect two to three percent of the population over the age of 16.

Uh, it has both motor and non-motor symptoms. And. Notably, that speech is impaired in Parkinson's, and that can affect up to 90 percent of the individuals that are affected, and it is, regardless of the stage of the disease Theory, they can develop symptoms in the very first stages or later on.

So, previous research has shown that the vocal features are different in people who are Parkinson's compared to the controls and also as the disease progresses. It tends to get worse.

But at the time I was doing my master, there were some gaps in the literature about how dance can affect. Like this speech, and why is that going to affect speech? And so I looked into two vocal features in people with Pakistan who went to the dance classes. There were fundamental frequency and intensity standard deviations.

And like. I looked into if going to the task passes, help them at least preserve their vocal features, which is like expected to get decline.

Uh, so we had a data set that was from 2014 to 2019, like almost five years of data was collected, and it was like the comparison between the vocal features between people with parking around at Galaxy controls? So, we have 29 people with Parkinson and 29 healthy control. Both groups went to the dance classes, regular dance classes weekly at National Valley School of Canada, and Trinity St Altar.

And it was between 2014 2019, but it was a part of a larger study, which I guess lasted until people that after that, like the class of the in-person classes were canceled, and it went to online. So, if you know what updrs is?

Uh, it's a questioner for stats that you evaluate the motor symptoms and non-mover symptoms in people with partners. What they did was in their study. They collected data they collected the updrs for both proof before and after the dance classes. So, dance classes was, uh, an hour and 15 minutes long, and they just participate were doing uvdr, and people were collecting new pdrs before the dias, and after the dance class.

So we have. Like, originally, it was 11 time points, but I. Like, absolutely. They take that into four time points, each one representing an year of. Like a measure of one year. So, as I mentioned, I looked into two vocal features, the fundamental frequency and intensity of standard deviations.

But there are other, more conventional local features that are being evaluated in Parkinson's disease, like Shimmer Jitter. Uh, harmonic to noise ratio, and the reason that I chose this. Is that like? For those like Jitter and Shimmer. There are specific tasks that this object were have to do in order to the like for us that the sound points can be evaluated for those measures, but uh.

In the updrs. There was a part that they were evaluating their speech, and they were handing a picture and were asked to describe that picture for 30 to 45 seconds. And. Out, as the task was different from the one that is needed for Jitter and Shimmer. Two measures that I could look into was the fundamental frequency and increase.

This is the picture that they use for this object to describe. And here I put this sample, and I guess. Like an example of Pakistan people and the healthy control describing the same picture and like to show how intensity of their voice are different. This is the intensity for the whole part of their description, and then I like isolated its common sentence common word that they use, uh, in their description.

While there is overflowing, that was. And sometimes they used, and you can see how it's different. On the left is the partisan subject, and on the right is the control subject. You see that the like, the range of their sound, the intensity of their sound that is changing, is different for the healthy controller is larger.

And there's more variation.

What we found was that for the fundamental frequency standard deviation, surprisingly, it was. There was a main effect of time meaning that from 2014 to 2019, this measure changed for both people with Parkinson and controls. Well, for the intensity standard deviation. We didn't find any differences between the two group or.

Across stock. For more detail on the intensity standard deviation. As I mentioned, there was not much change over time for both groups Arkansas and health controls. And I haven't applied yet. Top glue lines are the health controls and the bottom. Black ones are the parking Zone. People, you see, there are friends fish, like.

But the like, there was no significance difference between the two. However, for the fundamental frequency, we found that it was changed over time and like, I'm going to show you the plot. This is the same. Like, partly some people, two black lines at the bottom and the host controls for two blue lines on the top, and you can notice that from in this sort of the study.

Uh, the two group had different values for the frequency, but We go over and like at the end time when there were more singular, meaning that I forgot to mention this. The higher fundamental frequency standard deviation, the better. So, it's expected to decline as the disease progresses. But here, as the subject we're going to the dance classes, we show that the somehow dance is helping them with this vocal feature.

Like from other literatures they. Say that they expect for the fundamental frequency to decline, and this was a study. And celebrities that like developed partisan disease, and they looked into the same local feature, the fundamental frequency standard deviation from like six to 10 years per year to the clinical diagnosis of parking Zone through, like, five to ten years after the disease started.

And they showed that as the disease progresses, fundamental frequency standard deviation declined. It was in contrast with our study at the subject to the dance classes and shows that it helped. Uh, for the healthy control we have to study, they didn't find any difference in the elemental frequency standard position.

We saw that. Like, for the one of the athletes, one of the local features that we use the fundamental frequency. Uh, it can be an indicator or somehow a biomarker for the disease, and you can look into that for and see how it change over the time and in different disease stages and.

Like? It's very costly. I think the the only thing that they have to do is talk to a microphone or something, and then, like the algorithm can evaluate their fundamental frequency and the standard deviation of it. Um, and like dance was helping these guys, please. Somehow.

This is the age of AI, and we use AI for everything so. It's very good that it can monitor like even subtle changes in the voice that are not. Like, obvious to us. And. Like, we use this method for only Parkinson's disease, but it can be used in other neurodegenerative diseases or with normal aging to follow up with their voice and how changes.

So as a summary of what we found for the first study, is that like these these ones? These are from our study. These are the data, the box plotted box plots are from our city, and the lines are like the dash Gray Line is from the other study that I showed you the celebrity ones that it is expected to decline as the disease progresses, but the blue line here is the trend of our like fundamental frequency.

A standard deviation changes over time. And like, there was another study. I mean that there are only like a few studies moving into. Wall call features in Arkansas and? The process, the grade process you see. It's from another study. It was a single case study that looked into the Parkinson's disease and the fundamental frequencies in standard image.

And they showed that, like, from five years per year to the diagnosis, this measure started deteriorate. We published this study and. In the Journal of voice. And. Go to the next study, uh, but I will call any questions here. For the first thing.

What? What is it specifically about dance that that you're theorizing is, is, is causing this increase or enhancement in in this in this fosd variable? We were not sure, but I will talk about that more in the second study that we did.

So, fortunately for a subset of the 29 people that I mentioned we had for the study, we had neuroimaging data. So, we wanted to look okay. We have found in the behavior in the vocal features that it was changed. It got better. We wanted to know how, but other can be look into the brain and seeing changes in the brain.

So 10 people had the MRIs. Data and? Uh, we intended to look into two regions of interest for the functional MRI. Everybody knows what functional MRI is.

Nobody knows. Okay with the function of MRN, you will. Tell the participant to do something while they are scanning there and. In the MRI, you cannot move. So, what they asked to do for this participants? Uh, they were asked to imagine their dance as they were dancing in the studio.

They could not move. They would just imagine their dance and. You acquire signals from the brain and then analyze it with softwares to see the activity in different brain regions. And are they different from the Baseline that they're not doing anything versus the time they are. Uh, imagining. Doing something.

For our case, it was the dance imagination. Uh, so we're looking to the function of MRI and. We had. At the same time, the they, we got the structural MRI, and like the p1t2, and we looked into the cortical thickness changes in the brain in two regions of Interest.

One of them was broadcast. Everybody knows a profile, like, is responsible for speech production, and there was another region the supplementary from the language, which is within the SMA, the supplementary motor area that is more responsible for planning the movement. So, if they're planning to do speech, that should get activated.

And also we looked into the diffusion weighted Imaging. That's the one that you're saying about the last thing on his display.

For the functional numeric, it looked into two of the regions of Interest. One of them is very close to the broadcast area and, like, from other studies. I found that it's responsible for overspeak. Uh, like the subjects if they tend to speak to themselves. That area should be without in the functional number 11, and we should see activity of them.

We had, like MRI, in four time points, and there were period to the other study like the other study was in 2014 to 2019, and these MRIs were in 2013 and 2014, and it was like across eight months, and they had collected four time plans. Of data and. Like, they were very new to the ass at the moment.

Like, the soft jokes were the very first time going to the dance classes. They were all Parking some people and. Then, after that they saw that the other study which they collected didn't come from 2014 to. So, these are the like the signal changes, uh? Across time for the four time points that we had.

It was September December of 2013 and January in Aprilo. Uh. So, if we plots the Bold signal changes, full signal is the one that I told you about in the functional MRI. You will look into the. Uh, blood oxygenated. I don't remember the L or D. But. It's an indirect way to look into the activity in the brain, so when you're using one part of your brain, you're expected to have more blood flow going into that region and more blood wash out of that, and you look into the oxygenated blood versus the deoxygenated and.

But computationally, you calculate the difference between these two and see how it's different, and you can have an indirect measure of the activity of the brain industry. So, these are the bold signal changes across the four time points, and we saw that there was a different, uh, like insignificant difference between the first time coin in September till January.

Also for the other region of the internet. Let me show you where it is. It's in the within the SMA, the supplementary water area, and uh, very close to the supplementary frontal language that I mentioned. And for that part. Also, this is the ball signal changes, and like in there dance, there was a part that there was a vocalization.

So, in the actual dance industry, they pretended to have a lasso in their hand and say, Yeeha, like something like that, and I looked into this bold signal changes in that time points. As the subject where self-reporting that okay, in the 30 seconds I was. Uh, at the park that I had the last one in my hand after this guy.

And also. For this, we found a significant change from September to January in the Baltimore. From that degree. Uh, we also looked into the cortical thickness one over the Brokers area and one over the supplementary frontal language. The broadcast area didn't show any changes across the four time points that we had, and we actually was not expecting to see more changes because.

You are always using your speech, so dance is not a part that. Module, latest speech from the broadcaster, but maybe in the other region, the supplementary frontal language as there was a part that they were. Uh, having variable communication their dance. It was the planning part of the speech that.

Uh, might have changed, and we saw that, like. From September to December, there was an increase, uh, and then from December to. Like the April, the fourth time when it was almost a decrease in the Portugal fitness. And also the last one. We looked into the DTI as Joe was mentioning like this is the white matter connectivity, and which is the neurology technique and we looked into the connections between the Brokers area, which is on the left side of your brain and to the supplementary frontal language.

Until then, and see if the connections between these two regions has changed over time. So these are three subjects with the DTI and. Top roller, the January scan, and. And like, you see, in two of the subjects, there are somehow new connections getting formed in the later scan. We're not too sure about that if they are new connections.

Uh, or they are computational errors of the process is happening, but we have. Measures that are being evaluated in DTI, getting better. Those connections between the two regions. So, for the, there are different measures that you looked into when you're doing PTI. They're fractional anisotropy. Uh, exhale diffusivity. Mean diffusivity and radial diffusivity, and for.

These two time points that we had, and with the three subject that we have with UTI of the functional and isotropy, yet better with higher values in the second scan compared to the first. Uh, for the XLTCT, it was almost significant like P value 0.056. So we can with caution.

Say that there were new connection or at least the metrics in their brain was different for the two that were the connection between these two regions. Uh, between the two time points. And we are planning to publish this. It's currently under review. Foreign. That's almost all. I have to say.

Okay, any questions?

Okay.

Okay, now Samurai will present.

Where she was Joe. Um, so the title of my thesis is six years of dance and Parkinson's, assessing cognitive and non-motor outcomes. Um, so just to provide another brief control to what Parkinson's is. It's a age-related movement disorder, and this involves Progressive loss of dopamine neurons and dopamine is crucial for facilitating movements, so the loss of dopamine gives rise to Motors impairments like you would see in Parkinson's, so, such as Tremors afraid of concierge community, things like that, um, the ones that I just mentioned are known as the Hallmark motor signs, but secondary motorcyes include gay dysfunction, so it's difficulty with walking, and this can lead to Greater fall risk.

Um, here we have this. Grandma, and she has these blue, shaky lines surrounding her, and this is just to illustrate Tremors, which is a common water sign that's seen in Parkinson's. Um, so aside from it being characterized as a movement disorder, it's also a brain-owned or regenerative condition, and there's no care for it.

And aside from the motor impairments, there's a long list of non-motor symptoms that can appear very early long so years before or even decades before. During the global stage of PD, which is before a diagnosis is made because together diagnosis, you need to have the motor science. Um, examples of common non-motor symptoms include cognitive, client, and sleep disturbances, but there are many others constipation, urinary problems, depression, fatigue, things like that.

Um, beginning with the non-residents and the Secret disturbances. Insomnia is one of the most common sleep disturbance, and this is seen in up to 80 of cases risk factors. It's a risk factor for cognitive decline, depression, and EDS. And EDS is known as excessive daytime sleepiness. So, when you are having trouble staying awake during the day, so this could be a curious time, it's like, um, sitting, reading a book you're driving things like, just any time if you find it hard to stay awake.

This is seen enough to 60 percent of cases in PE and risk factors for this include insomnia and depression. And the final dollar or something that I will be focusing heavily on is cognitive decline, so cognitive decline is seen six times more likely of the PE population compared to those without PD.

Um, and it can also present before a diagnosis of PDS made or very early font. It's also a risk factor for India, so excessive data. Expanding on cognitive decline. This is a normal part of aging. However, it does appear on Spectrum, so cognitive decline can progress to mild cognitive impairment, and this is seen in up to 35 of cases at PE onset, um, it also is.

It also appears in the middle of the spectrum, so it's a lot more severe than just caucus decline, but much less severe than dementia. And MCI is also a risk factor for dementia. Um, so after about well or so years approximately, I just now can progress to dementia and within 20 years, approximately 80 of cases only do progress to dementia agent genetics, our communities dementia, and this significantly can have daily life, and there's Independence.

Um and key domains that can be affected during Parkinson's can include memory, visual spatial attention, and working memory. And just to briefly go over these, so memory impairments can result in slower processing of information or difficulty. Would recall a recognition visual facial function is essentially our understanding of spatial relationships between objects, so an impairment within this domain would result in a typical human navigating the environment, so that can include bunch of things.

It could make it difficult for you to carry out your daily chores and things like that. Um, and finally, we have executive dysfunction, which is known as the Hallmark content client and Parkinson's, and this includes your attention and working learning process. Working memory is essentially the storage and manipulation of stored information and a deficit in working memory can result.

Can result in an inability process relevant to confirmation. So, what does all of us have to do with Parkinson's? I mean, I'm sorry, with Dad. So basically, there's been a growing interest in dance to help slow down the disease progression. And as we know, physical activity can be very beneficial for brain health and singling out deaths, um.

You know that Dad combines movement with music and social engagement? It taps into your learning and your memory. You have to memorize choreographic movements and know when to actually execute them. So, it's happening to a lot of great areas that brain areas that are getting activated, um, there have also been numerous studies that have found that dance can improve that is associated with improved motor and non-motor symptoms.

However, when we look at cognition, these data settings have only been typically short-terranged between a few weeks up to two years, so we don't actually know what the long-term impact of that is on cognition, and that brings me to my Sergio gettic questions, um, so. Is kind of a long study, but we will first go over death and the influence on global cognition to global cognition is just everything, and then we will also take a look at hate and cognition, so the airports that update, and then the association between gay and cognition.

And then, we'll. Finally, we'll break down the cognitive domains and focus on three, specifically, which already mentioned later on. And we'll also be looking at select number symptoms, and we're going to be focusing on sleep definitive association with coffee. So, my overall research question is, how does long-term participation end dance influence cognition and select non-whitific Parkinson's disease?

But it's going to give over this part since I mentioned it, but um, so we had two groups starting with the death group. We had 43 volunteers um with Parkinson's and I say volunteered because it wasn't observational studies. So the actually recruiting one it was people signing up for wherever they wanted to do, but they were attending these dance classes, uh, weekly done classes, um, between 2014 to 2019, so the process six year period here with using many mental a examination.

And we also, as we also use the updrs to assess their motor and non-motor symptoms. We did not have any control group, so instead we had selected a reference group from a larger database, and we included 29 individuals with Parkinson's, who were basically in active across the same study period.

So, from 2014 to 2019, They were. Their coefficient was assessed between the Montreal cognitive assessment, the mocha, and they also had completed bupdrs. Because both of the cognitive tests had differ, we've had for us to do an objective comparison. We staggerized the scales to the center as a test and disease cores just so we can put them on the same skill and do a comparison.

And now, let's take a look at the result. So before I show the actual the entirety of the graph for the dance group, if I'm focusing on global cognition, we have oxidized that I'm looking for six years, but we need to better cognition and maybe compared to the connector reference group and look forward to the graph.

I wanted to point out a few things. So the white area, which is scores above 26 to 30, that indicates healthy or normal cognition. So, anything below that would indicate cognitive decline. To help visually represent this, we've included to the same gravel before that has the Parkinson's and then what appears to be like a normal grammar.

This isn't to say that if you spore within the white brain, you no longer have Parkinson's. It's just to show that as the disease progresses, you would expect that your copy of decline employees progress and worsen across time. Um. Taking a look at the scores of the dance group, we see that during the start of the studies of 2014 to 2019 to see that the scores are simply, they're scattered across the ring.

But as we move towards the end of the study, most of the scores. They remain within the white, so the healthy, normal condoms of its own. Taking a look at their General trainer pattern. You see that? Participants have improved by approximately or almost 0.5 points per year. And comparing this to the reference group, where we hypothesize that physical inactivity would lead to worse cognition and pedic rate.

Those who does, for six years. Again, the white zone indicates healthier normal cognition or anything below the name branding below 26, so the gray area would be getting kind of decline. Here, we see that participants in the reference group were quickly enacted across this year period. They were only improving by 0.05 points per year, so we saw a greater improvements in the dance group compared to the reference group where we see relatively no change.

And all these scores are their raw scores. And now, let's take a look at their standard Sports. Okay, so the dance group here is shown in purple, and the reference group is shown in Gray, and we're going to take. We're going to focus on the bottom half of this graph, right, with a bar.

So, in the starting of the study between 2014 to 2015, we see that there's no significant difference between both groups. However, if we take a look at 2016, we see that there is a significant Improvement in the dance group, but still no change in the physically inactive reference group.

The common themes that the cognitive games that we see in the dance group are sustained um from 2016 to 2019. Again, there was no change in the reference group. And by 2019, you see that this difference? This improvement that we saw in the cast group is no longer there.

It was also significant by 2019, and this is likely because it reduced participation. So by the end of the sending plan, we only had three five participants, so the study might have been up to power to see if there was a device. And now, let's take a look at gate.

So, again, um, I wanted to clear a few things, um, first. We hypothesized up the dance group of greater impairments in gay performance across the six year period compared to the physical reference group. The range here is the opposite, so the higher the score, the worse the symptom. And I also wanted to point out that for the dance group, we no longer have 43 people.

We only were able to include time participants, and this was because we wanted to include pretty expensive. We had at least two testing sessions done for us to compare three and post assessments. Um, so just to point out a few other things if we focus on the purple boxes, we see that the boxes are much smaller.

The whiskers are also smaller, and this essentially represents that the dance group had more stable scores compared to the reference group. We will take a look at the gray boxes. We see a lot more variability, and we know these because the boxes and the whiskers are a lot bigger.

We also had two outliers, one in each group. So, if we take a look at 2017 for the dance group to see that the score was much lower compared to the rest of the fitness spoons. And then, in 2019, see that the we have another outlier, and this basically is the score was a lot higher or a lot worse compared to the rest of these groups.

Um, so, unfortunately, in the dance group, we saw no change across time. We could speculate that this could be preservation of gate function, but because we only had 10 participants, the study was severely underpowered was to actually do an accurate respect analysis. Um, however, in 2018, we do see a temporary decline in the reference group.

This was only temporary, so we can probably speculate that this might be because of symptoms variability in engage performance, because this this significance was no longer in 2019. And now going back to cognition. So the three domains that we wanted to focus on, which are the three ones that we'll plays you have attended working memory as one condition, spatial function, and then memory.

Taking a look at the dance group first, we saw that there was significant improvements in intention, working memory, um. From 2017 to 2019. Um, and then if we look at memory, we only see that in the JavaScript, there's only a significant Improvement in 2016 and 2017. Um, so we consecuted that it's.

We can speculate that the cognitive cognitive gains were not sustained by the end of the study because of the intervention may not have been as common to be stimulating anymore. And then. Finally, we have the full spatial function. So, for visual facial function, we saw that scores remain stable.

There was no change in the dance group across the sixth year period, um. This, we are unsure if this is actually preservation. It could also be because the concrete test that was used for the dad's group, the nmsc. The way that I assesses visual spatial publishment, and if by using one item and that's scored out of one and it's binary, so there might not be enough variability for us to see anything, um.

And now, let's take a look at all three domains in the reference group. So, so across memory, attention with memory, original spatial function, we saw that there was no chain in the reference group across the sixth year period. And finally, let's take a look at sleep. Um, so in this analysis, we focus on insomnia and daytime sleepiness and a few things to point out again.

The higher the score, the worse the symptom insomnia is shown in Wu and yellow. We have big time sickness. Dance is represented. The dance group, The Johnson, presented by the saw online and the dotted line is for the reference group. Um, so insomnia is significantly worsened in the reference group.

This was from 2018 to 2019, but insomnia across sixth year period did remain stable in the in the dance group, and then we also have daytime seeking this, and we saw no change in either group across to six years period. We also thought that there was no association between student and Congression, and so, what did the results tell us and why are they important?

So? So, for Global cognition, we saw there was a significant Improvement in the dance group, but this difference was no longer there for 2019. Um, I think in Liberations of participation and Education for individuals today. We thought there was Improvement in the dies group and in memory and attention.

Easter memory, so we usually communities like that is associated with the cognitive outcomes. For the reference group, so the group that remains we thought there was no change in global cognition and also no change across the individuals. You know, change in any kind of either group. This, maybe for a few reasons, so we might need a more comprehensive assessment for assessing asset daytime sickness.

So, as I mentioned previously, um, not just one factor. It's, it can happen at any time. So if you're driving, you're reading. You're just sitting, um, on your phone anytime. Um, and there are better measures out there, but this the suspect we used is not really captured the entirety of death.

Um, secondly, sleep related disturbances may not overlap in mild pregnancy. So, both of our groups are dad's group, and our reference group had mild BP, and we usually typically see an overlap between Sikh disturbances as the disease progresses and goes towards the advanced stages. So that might also be a reason why we don't see anything for UPS.

Um, and the importance of this is that Canada's population is aging, and there's a rising number of cases, and this is referred to as a rising tie, because cases are expected to settle by 2030, so this is the next. Five years. And although the older aspects of the disease can be rehabilitating non-motor symptoms, especially in combination with the motor symptoms can be extremely challenging, and this is not only for the individuals themselves, but it contributes significantly to economic and care comparable, but then.

And also non-wire symptoms. They contribute significantly to reduce quality of light and low blood satisfaction. So the way that we perceive our life and our well-being, and this can contribute to low mood feelings of unhappiness, stress, and things like that.

Okay, uh, now I'm Marcus. I'm the uh senator of the day, um, leaving a generous two hour to talk about my talk, which I'm sure would not think to go, I promise. Okay. So, um, let's start with this guy, right? I'll have fun. One more famous person who got Parkinson's later on in live streams.

He was, uh, three times heavyweight boxing champion in 1964 for boxing a little like a butterfly boxing. For effort 40 years later. To this, right? A sad old man. Soon after his retirement, he diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. Made him barely talk. React to any stereo stimuli. Or perform off any kind of physical activity.

He passed away in 2013, I think. Month after this picture was taken. So, you might ask, what is Parkinson's think? I truly feel. Um, I should give this feel before these two presentations, but here we are. What is Parkinson's disease? It was first discovered by James Parkinson's and naming it after himself.

He described the disease as a essay on the shaking pulse. However, it was the French neurologist John Martin that is the first people to systematically characterize the disease and its reflying information, relating any of the disease. The guy on the right also discovered multiple sclerosis. He was a great Norse.

Neuroscientist at the time got lots of work done for the Parkinsonants and cultures process. Here are some early sketches of Chicago on the left. You can see voice changes like Ashken haven't mentioned. And on the right, he described it as a signature hand gesture in my rigida. Now, we call this hill rolling track.

So, if you take your um? Roll a pill with your pinky. And in this finger. That's with a hand gesture of a participation with the people present a pill rolling track. He also sketched the abnormal posture and walking at his very Thomas. I don't know how many of you have contact with a partisan patient, but?

This is still what they look now has over, um, 150 years of Discovery. And we still haven't found a definite cure to Parkinson's. Nowadays, we recognize Parkinson's disease as a age-related neurodegenerative disease. Age related, essentially just. People reach some kind of age. This disease develops naturally. In other words, we don't know what triggers this.

Neurodegenerated, on the other hand, means the neurons in the brains are essentially dying. And in the current technology, we couldn't make the dying neurons in the brain to grow back. Okay. Common symptoms like Cimarron has been three diet slow movements, Tremor, muscle rigidity, trouble swallowing, and imposture. Uh, walking key.

It currently affects over a hundred and ten thousand nations in capital. So, if you think about the total population that is a significant amount, some of the. Some of the patients are asymptomic, meaning they don't present any of these. In the beginning phase and a progresses worse and worse as time goes on.

There are currently some. Diagnostic methods. Like, if you get scanned in the retina? They Parkinson's patients exhibit a significant pattern different than anyone else, and they diagnosed these people with Parkinson's, right? One of, uh, Joe's colleagues? Actually was diagnosed with Parts in this way, without any exhibiting symptoms like that.

So, why do we have these symptoms? We can see in the membrane on a bottom. A healthy control would have a impact substantia diver. This essentially black substance exception either, right? It appears to the black, as you can see in this slice gear, and in the Parkinson's, it's almost gone.

It's absolute. So this region? Does the dopamine production in the basal ganglion for the motor circuit? So that's why part of the patient exhibits Tremor slowest movement because their motor circuits are not activated properly. If we take a look off this brain slides, we've got the cortex in pink.

These various cortexes, vertices, motor Association cortex, sensory Association cortex. Uh, and.

Are there things that Works closely with the structuring the middle? We got thalamus in red, trade in green, and the globalist palette is externals and internists in blue. These colorful regions scattered. If we call it, the basal gang places in the middle upwards. Let's take a quick overview of what's happening in the Vaso game in a neurologically healthy subjects.

So, at rest, nothing is active, and we want to keep all our limbs still. This Globals holidays keeps it inhibition our balance. And his thalamus is what directs the primary motor tortex. I don't know, exactly. Learn is yet, but the primary motor cortex, which grows in our limbs if it were raised by hand.

The crown will look for an expensive right, and this is happening before the motor works. Thalamus is helping the motor cortex what to do? Harass. This Global's Palace inhibits the thought, so our limbs if we didn't want to do doesn't move around. When we want to do something? The cortex.

How's these dragon? And from dopamine input from the substantia nigra, the black substances.

We inhibit the globals out of this. And in this way, thalamus is now active. It's ready for the movement. Now, this command can reach from the vortex. Do the thalamus and tell them what to do if you want to raise our land. And here we are. With the support of dopamine, we got a smooth and regular move.

This substantia nigra striatum, Globus Paladas, Dynamic together. It's called the direct pathway where the gold pathway essentially called us when to go with warm a movement. And we got. We also got this indirect pathway, which is not show Peter. That essentially tells us when to stop when to intake balance.

You should stop.

Now, in the park of this model, we get a degraded substantia nigra. The neurons were not there to produce dopamine. So, in this case with the, uh, the movement pulse came from the cortex. When it reaches the Triadum and then walking to reach the thalamus. You can no longer do so.

Because the global is Paladin stays the thalamus to be inhibit for an extended time. So, when finally slowly reached the uh, inhibited thalamus, the pause would essentially get degraded get prolonged. And therefore, we got a. Delayed and working rate and movement.

So, essentially, what Joel told us is that dance is beneficial to participations on a motor aspect, right? If we put them into dance programs three years later, their motor symptoms doesn't get worse. Right, mind the? Uh, the condom doesn't get worse, doesn't mean it was, uh, it proved in any sort of way.

Ashton told us the speech feature essentially can get better. And. Simran told us the. The cognition factor. The memory can matter with this kind of things. But what I want to know is what happens inside the brain that essentially drives those changes, right? What part of the brag had changed caused all these behaviorals?

We've seen a lot of cases actually. There are other researchers that Joe bags at the same result dance is good part of Parkinson's patient on of various aspects, not only the motor right. We can. Improve muscle tail, enhance interpersonal relationship. Who's self-esteem, right, and essentially, uh, improve their quality of life.

And furthermore, in aerobic exercise. I don't know if you have heard a term or a lot, but aerobic exercise in general is beneficial for brain health for everybody, not only in hearts patients so. If you get stressed, go walk in the park, right? Go run a few kilometers. It is helpful, right?

Trust me. This isn't exactly what I said. What if it what is happening in the brain that drives all these changes that Joe has seen and ashcam and simranazi? To find that we are going to rely on your Imaging methods like MRI, magnetic resonance images. And the field expertise I work in, which is, uh, specifically white matter in your image.

Okay, that says, get a little bit over.

How many of you haven't heard the term of Ray matter and why matter?

A lot of you almost half. Okay, thank you. So gray matter. Essentially, is our neurons cell bodies right in the brain. You can see the gray matter is down the house or the outer surface off the brain. Because it cell bodies that have the nucleus inside them and appears to be gray on the anatomy slide.

So that's what we call a greyhound. The Y matter? Is the maximum bundle that neuron the cell body sends out to communicate with other neurons. And because it is a? Um. A fat, surrounded structure. And the fact that used to be white monthly. And that's why we call it the white map.

So the brain manner does the work white matter. Communicate the single. You can sort of picture this as. The gray matters. Aren't the city ones? Like we got Ronald, we got Scarborough. We got Mississauga and the Y matter on the highways that connecting the 401, the Gardner Highway. You can put a sort of put us in this finale.

So, we want to see how the white matter at least I want to see how the Y Max got changed in Parkinson Nations. For that, we speculated a model of external cues. External Q essentially means there are other forms of sensory input to our system that helps this sort of mode of processing.

You can see in that. The essence of dance is. People interlocking the movement. With some kind of music or Metro, any kind beat, Etc. So this matching activity? Gives us the motor exercise and my giving them. The more exercise the part reasons patient's knees that helps with their motor proxy.

Furthermore, we got the visual input of that. The authority input the music. And sometimes I have no touch from the dance Partners or the dad leaders and also have as exertive views. There are previous experiments that have shown Park as its patients walks better when there are external accused present.

So, if we put lines on this floor? The parking sensations. It's going to walk better when their lines absent, or if a meter news, income, or a metronome it played while you're walking. They also walks better. So that essentially gives us a hint that extendedum cues are helpful, but in one way.

Now, let's go back to this diamond, right? We got, uh, the degraded substantia naira don't have any absence. We got delayed, uh, activation off the thalamus, and eventually we've got any delay working degrade movement as a behavioral output. If we add external cues in there? The thalamus essentially acts as a an iteration of all these stimuli that were received into our brain and in all the output we want to control of your body.

If we have external cues, we have increased simuli stimulation from the sensory core disease in the balance. We might essentially turn it around into this, ready to be activated state. We might essentially counter the inhibition from this structure Global as time.

You can essentially counter the inhibition from the Gold's houses, and we rescue the movement. Given that we have seen real Behavior effect when Joe's study in Ashland City, it simmer and study. We hypothesize the output halfway from the balance. To the motor for next step. Actually, guys are removed them.

Have some sort of neuropathicism be changed. Now, many of you haven't heard a turret, uh, neuropascists. Good, uh, how many have you have returned? Uh, neurons that the wire fire together wire together? Nice, nice. So this well tells us. If we activate the pathway a lot? It will essentially get improved timeline time.

So? This balance is. Gets activated more often is how the pathway is supposedly get stressful. This is essentially my hypothesis, and we are going to use.

Okay. Okay, we have seen that. Before we see the actual study. Anybody got any questions about the rationale, the train of thoughts, anything?

Yes.

Yes. So in Parkinson's patients.

Yes, yes, let me go back to.

Okay, this one. Uh, actually.

So, this part is your night, right? Uh, gets degraded because in participations, they create a cytotoxin substance inside a brain called Lewy bodies. The Lewy bodies got accumulated and inside the toxicity essentially killed the neurons in the substantial anger, and they are dopamine producing them. So, in the whole circuit, Austin's based on point in the eye, it doesn't get enough of nobody input in your system.

So that's what creates these all Downstream of problems and okay? Okay, anybody else?

Now, moving on to the actual study.

The funny thing is, uh, the three of us actually. Actually, the four album doesn't look yellow. We out paint to stay. That's brought a single, a shame. No, no, it's the same. The same data collection section, right? Joe had. Uh, 16 part presentation in with and each of us selected the substance subset of participant to work with.

For me. Unfortunately, I only get four. Depends, uh? Uh, these four are the only four people who had the. Your your Imaging data. I need for two time points, right? You need at least two time points to visualize a change across time. So I got four mild participations. I don't have any control.

That's, uh, another thing we'll cover later. Their average year about diagnosis is 63.9. And they have no other implications other than apartment companies. We row them into weekly voluntary participations in an hour, 15 minutes in length. We have two brain stands. We did a structural MRI essentially called P1, uh, we got P1 scans.

We got the two structural scans. These are all just, uh, scanning right structure was called T1. We got FRI functional magnetic resonance imaging, and uh, DTI diffusion tensor. Your DTI is specifically designed to detect the Y matter structure at the side of it, so have that. And the data was collected in January and April of 2004.

Joe had his original setting in. Be three years of time span, and simran also got the whole time frame of data. And again, for me, I only have three. So we have to work. Now, data processing is the major happening of i7. We have to do a whole bunch of data processing.

The data caught off the scanner into final final. Number point that we can put statistics later on. So, we have this raw data from hot up to the scanner. We use some kind of tool into these, uh, processable form. We separated into structural scans and diffusion, weightage, and essentially that's another name for white, matter-centric scanning.

Okay, see this is T1 on the left? We. All kind of structures are presented clearly. The fusion weight is bad, looks kind of different. And there is the grayscale. Then the ventricles where it's filled with cortical spinal fluid. The T1 appears to be black the diffusion way to scan.

It appears to be white. That's because they're um. Single present single presentation is on a different scale, right? And it's not entirely inverted. At this stage, I'll call them different. You'll learn about more of that in advance, your Imaging. I don't know that ports is all part of York, but.

It is what it is. For more processing. We divide this structural scan into a form of five tissue type segmentation, essentially devise the dividing whole structure of the drain, the whole B1 into five hives of tissues. We got gray matter, why matter sub quarterful brain pattern meet? The gray matter is very inside the cortex.

And the purple slime fluid and hotline position. This step is essentially recognized where the interface between gray and Y matter is right. We want to image the why matters. We must know where determinants. Using the diffusion way to scan and the boundaries to trace, where each streamlines will go.

We simulate the form of wagmatter into connecting streamline. These stream lines connect between the agreement.

So, now we have the entire rings. Why matter simulated into streamline formal? In diffusion tensor image. We essentially measure how the water diffuses inside of a nerve bone. Their bundle is made of. Tens of thousands of millions of these little, um, axons, right. They compress themselves into a bundle.

And we want to measure the water diffusion inside of the bundle. As you may imagine? The water I uses in a perfect spear model with no constraints is clogged. When these axons are present? The axon presses it into the elongated elliptical shape. So, uh, the shape of the water by Fusion is made into intensive, and that is what we measure is diffusion tensor engine, right?

On the left, we got a healthy myelinated axle bundle. The accent is passively it it mild it, which is, uh, made of fat. That is, it does not like water, right, the water getting pushed around? In a more healthy action bundle. There are more restricted by Fusion, so that means.

The water game pushed around more. But in a inward or less mild and Native. Sometimes the axon, the amount from the axon is missing, the signal gets, uh, graded in another way. That's what happens in multiple sclerosis, right? The the bundles are there, but the myeliner gun? This leads to increased diffusion and.

You know, less healthy. Yeah. Isotropic or unisotropic water vacuum, right? You'll change blood water that fuses in a perfect sphere. But in the axle bundles, the diffusion model from a sphere is compressed into this elongated of the upper ship. These three hygen bodies, which we measured, is what the outcome of the fusion tensor image right don't memorize this formula.

I promise, it's not going to be unfortunate. Okay, so I myself and I couldn't remember memorizing it. Uh, but do know the concept this, uh, law and access that the long axis is called plungement doodle diffusivity, right? How much the water. Can I use it? How long people on the axes of the axon?

The average of these two is called radial electricity. It tells you how much the water diffuses in a radiated wrench. And if we put these three together and divide it by three, make the mean is called mean diffusivity. How much is this huge model that is? Water type fuses overall.

And this big formula of fractional and isotropy, right? This. The concept of isotropy came from. Uh, how much Randomness this water technology model have, right? If it's, uh, perfectly isotropic, right? The water Monaco have? I know the fries is, uh, is it more random because there are more? Freedom.

Inside of it, and in this compressed model is less. So, there's fractal and isotropy. Tells us. Essentially, is measured bad to give us the overall shape of the elliptical model. All right, I get some memory. So? Uh, how many of you have seen a MRI scan? Okay, thank you okay.

Uh, the MRI scans are presented in each little box. Well, pixels. We got. A square picture, right? But Vox, what we got, paid volume off scans, uh, it is divided by a little cubicles of. Uh, one millimeter Cube or two millimeter Q, right? Depending on the metrics. And the whole brain is presented in those little tubes.

In each of the box of the cubes, we got a. In the whole answer, all right. And in these gray areas are ventricles. We've got corpospinal fluid. This is where we've got perfect isotrope, right? Perfect water diffusion, which is sweet. And in these elliptical. More elliptical boxes. We got a compression from the axle bundles.

Now, if we do a simple game of connecting the dots in each of the little voxels, we connect. How? Um. How they act so that Fusion was, and we create a streamline of simulating why matter Dynamics. So, eventually, for a single tract, we got something like this, right? Uh, actually, these tracks are color coded.

Red means it travels in this horizontal Direction and communicates with the left and right brain. With grain, it travels in this long computer Direction. It communicates within a. A single. A single hemisphere of the brain, but it connects with different region with blue. It travels up and down. The commands were async, the similar from the body to the brain or from the brain to the body.

And eventually for the O-ring. We got this this colorful picture, all right again. These are hoverboarded.

Before we get further. I know this is quite complex, but uh, question about the methodology about the future cancer images? Nope.

You haven't. Okay, nice. Okay. Now we have established. We simulated the entire range of white matter. Now, we want to see. This specific track of Y Max, how it actually? Right, remember from? From this diagram, we will see how a wide pattern specifically from McDonald's to the motor vertex have changed.

We use Ray matter as a filtering mechanism. To essentially filter this white matter track from the whole from the rest. So, we got thalamus to start. We filter anything that is connected to the balance. And we add the prime motor cortex in there. And we filter anything that connects between.

And this is the final result. This is the connection from the primary motor cortex to the Dominus in this particular subject.

Right? We already talked about this and. The reason we do? This is because we want to know where your tracks are so we can select. Which block, so that passes through to get our final metrics. Right. We talked about the axial radio and mean diffusivity. We talked about fractional on isotropy, right, and.

Now, we want to select. The voxel that gets trapped passes through to get a number of a single track, right? The, uh, all of these four metrics? Uh, have the scanner happens, right? We just have to select. Would track the which box, and then it tries to pass through and get the name of that single account.

And we got a whole array of numbers, and we can do statistics later on. For me, I personally do our studio, um, I know. Python is a more popular programming language, so.

Again, going back to this diagram, you might notice. From this study, we are missing a controller. Right, because I don't have any control subject to work with.

Instead, I selected a control pathways within the same subject sprain to compensate for the lacks of processes of people. We couldn't select the same halfway, so we select the another pattern. This is the visual path. The connection from visual coordinates to the balance, right? The reason we select this this particular pathway is, well, a it's more well understood pathway.

It's a extensively steady pathway High group. Uh, we got CVR that. Essentially, studies visual so. And we know this pathway should not exhibit a change if the participants are continuously using their Vision. What they call blind or something? So we. We uses this pathway as a control pathway for the same subject.

We can also included the whole ring Matrix. Remember, we do simulations of the whole brain, the whole brain white manometric to confirm any Global effect caused by aerobic acids, right? So, let's first take a look at the selected streamline tab within each of the track. Remember, we got two tracks.

We got the. Motorpark X 2000s and Falamus, two video workouts and? We got good atmosphere. So a total of four? Specifically in the right side. Motor track. We got a decrease in track count. Is this simulated streamline account? From April from January to April, these four participants all have a significant decrease, extremely healthy, the p-value.

The p-value tells you how? How valid this statistics is is less than 0.02 means. This is a very significant observation, um. So, what that essentially means is the number of simulated streamlines whenever we do selection based on thalamus and more importance. But we have not seen real metrics yet within the selected voxels.

The difference here. Could you do stagnification differences? When segmenting the whole brain's gray matter, we might have some discrepancies between January and April. So by this observation alone, this decreased by itself does not provide sufficient evidence for any kind of structural Improvement or structural, uh. Decline within those markets.

We have to take a look at the real metrics before that. I've just mentioned to determine where it is a difference or not. If we move on to these four metrics. They are not significantly different on group level at all. Despite we have some discrepancies. Across individual level, you can see the purple line.

This subject Mt exhibits what we want, right? We have. Axial diffusivity increase means the the tensor is stretched more in this direction. Uh, radial and mean. Deducibility decrease means it's less diffused along the radial Direction. The tensor gets more elongated, gets thinner in the middle, and they increase in fractional and isotro, right?

And it tells us, it's uh, being. Less likely to a spear and more likely to. Are perfect elongated. Model, right? So, he exhibits what we want, but it's counteract by other subjects, so we don't have a root level of significance. It both off the motor tracks and the visual tracks.

Okay, uh? Before it was left hemisphere. Now, this is right hemisphere, uh, essentially tells us the same thing. None of the metrics are significantly different across three months. Again, we got individual level of discrepancies, but nothing significant, I think, root level. We also look at the O-range metrics. Still, no significant difference between January and April in these four participants are group level.

What it tells us is, there might not be a change in this alpha pathway because of neuroplasticity. They are also no Global change on. Why matter because of early exercise essentially during in the global white matter and visual important, right? Before we move on through interpretation. Again, any questions?

Nope. I'm confused about, like when you were going over, like the diffuser tensor Imaging and describing when you were going over the diffusion tensor Imaging, and like the isotropic and and isotropic. And just like the the implications of like water flow, I I sort of lost you there, okay?

So, let's start with this, right? So, if you pictured a, uh, water follicle? Right, without any restriction. It's going to get a fuse at all directions. Right. The water that can be modeled the prediction of where diabetes is. Goes into a sphere because they kind of diffused in Alzheimer's relations, right?

If you put restriction on those for, say, uh, you put out a table. You could only diffuse a belonging axis of a table model. It's not gonna use up because of gravity. He's not going to diffuse down because disable there, right? So, now, we're in. The fusion model is a plane looks like a plate.

Right? Hmm, and now we want to put this water molecule inside of axill Bluffs. So what axon essentially looks like is? Uh, I kind of like this wire, right? If we put multiple? Wires together, and we put a water molecule in the middle, how it's going to have used right.

It's kind of that. Use more in this direction less than this. Yeah, right? So it forms a elliptical model, right? Yeah, okay. That's essentially what it means, and we got this. We got this perfect isotropic. Spear model and a strain on isotropic delivery. Okay, good, yeah, so all right.

Okay.

As we move on to the interpretation, go back to our hypotheses. We may essentially reject. Uh, failed to reject our new one policies that there might not be a change in this. Study having of motor.

Now, we see there are no change motor or visual track for 3 months. There are also no change in the whole brain yamatra track, except for one part hashkin just presented, kindly told us. This, the change from the supplementary motor critics to the broadcaster. Essentially responsible for speech production, right?

I've I've been talked about my research for an hour or so. My brokeness area has been incredibly active in the past hour. And. This is what drives people to produce the speech, and they have a linkage to the supplementary motor area to the. Preparation of motor movements. How can I control my muscles around my mouth?

How can I? Pictorial muscles in my throat right to produce a coherent speech. He had observed a significant structural Improvement in this pastor, right? He talked about a fractionalized trophy and actual diffusivity, I'm sure. I was kind of kind of got feedback of it, but now came to this explanation.

I hope I can make this clearer for you guys. So, we have the same subjects. The the same scans in the same time frame. Well, I will see the change he doesn't. What that tells us that tells us, uh, I might not. Be looking at the correct places, right?

And we don't know what is the time frame for the motor pathway to change? It's three months to shorten. Can we do it in six months? Let me do it in two years, right? We don't know that because we want. We only have three months worth of date. Now, given that we know there indeed change across three months, just not in mind is our setting pathway.

Now, let's talk about my studies limitation and future Direction. Well, first of all, it is a proof of concept. It only consists of four people lack of control group. But we, our first researchers on this planet that implemented diffuse intense Imaging into dance and how to affect harnesses people, right, and we have in the signaging?

So, if we continue with a larger scale of data collection and? Uh, participant recruitment. We might be on to something.

This, uh, full brain track based special statistics is another Advanced method working on the whole ring of white matter. It essentially spits out a heat map option, right where it change it. It's going to appear. Red or it's not so wedgy, it's got a pair blue, right? If we have?

This. In the future, we can essentially pinpoint where do white matter have changed most, right, for instance? Speech pathway. It's gonna probably appear red while my visual and motor pathway is probably going to appear blue because they don't take. Okay. And then we want to link our Discovery of your Imaging of range structure change with actual behavioral entries, right, such as?

Uh, similar memory. Memory or cognition metrics or any kind of? Physical measure. Are they decreased in time freezing? Have a? All less right. Have their memory change? Can't we associate these behavioral changes into changes in the brain, right? If there's association again, we might be up to something. This pathway is governed by this structure in the brain, right, and then.

And now there is a. Lifelong debate between dance and exercise. We have seen dance have the special effects, but the exercise people say, hey, it's all just aerobic exercise that drives to change. You couldn't isolate aerobic exercise from your diastria. But now, with this result, we might actually have, right?

Because the motor pathway that controls our limbs does not have a change, but this speech pathway that is irrelevant to aerobic exercise is just for example, have an activity, and we have seen better behavioral presentation for dance people about dancing, Advanced participation versus Department inspection. We have exercise. These non-lower aspect is speech, the music, all the social engagement.

Might actually be. What makes the difference, right? The main new part, we isolate the molar output from the mix. Okay, that's. Basically, yet we got a lot of famous people we got Michael J fox. We got Ozzy Osbourne, uh, as you might know, uh, former American President Bill Clinton also had Harvesting disease, right?

And it can continue on this linear research track. We hope one day we might finally dance the parcels of it, right? Okay, any? Uh. Question about the whole lecture? Yes, I was very curious for all three of you involved in these experiments as they were happening. Or were you using data?

Uh, they had to take place. We use the data that is ready there, I believe. The data collection happens from 2013 to 2019, right, right before covet happened, so hope it happened there. And this data, which is more than 10 years old at this point, have inspired a lot of research.

A lot of papers in this life, right, and we still are undermining the state. Try and still trying to make me faster than these people get out. Yeah, anything else?

Uh, I guess that's it. I don't know if Joe would want to. No, uh, I'll stick around again for any questions, but other than that, I think we have nothing else. Then, you're all free to go. Yeah, for myself. I have completed two years Ambassadors.