What I'm hoping to cover and then dig into what it is that I want to cover just a little, uh, heads up sometimes. My what I'm hoping to cover in a lecture I don't get through. It's a little bit too ambitious, so essentially, wherever I leave off. I will pick out the next time is we will get through all the information by the end of.

Don't worry about that. Um, I just wanted to check in the textbook. I don't know if you guys have been successful. Uh, yeah. And just to remember that it's, it's this often option, right? Sorry, off out option. You're automatically enrolled to the registers office. You have to opt out of that.

Um, there's also this other thing called achieve, where I don't know much about it. I don't spend that much time on it, but I think it's helpful in terms of processing the information it's in there. I know some people they actually design quizzes and that their your grades are dependent on that.

That's not my strategy. I want you to have access to it. I want you to have freedom, at least within the three sections of the course, to do practice quizzes all of those things. Um, but for your own edification, right? So you can monitor your own progress. Um, the guy who's my book?

Rep is apparently designing all that and pulling it together. I don't know whether he's made progress. I know from one of my sections he has, but it's in the works. Yeah, just like, anecdotally, like, I find the achieve quizzes. Like, really, really helpful because they tell you like, you know, what percentage of the questions that you got wrong were like, based off of the topic, so it's like what you need to go study more.

It's really it's like metacogue, it's those kinds of items, particularly the multiple choice, because that's the items that, uh. That's the technique format I'll be using to monitor you. But my guess is, if there's short answer and essays, it doesn't hurt to play around with the information a little bit right to figure that out as well that it's something about.

Um, so with that in mind, I just want everybody here to keep your eye on the ball being down tall and the first one I believe is in October on October 1st, uh, it's a Wednesday. Obviously, it'll be in this course. I'm sorry. In this classroom, uh, it will include 16 multiple choice items that will be based on chapters one, two, six, as well as all lectures from the first band class until the lecture, right before the end of the lecture right before.

Hey, I need to show up here, right on time to the exam gets started right away over 75 minutes. What kinds of questions do I ask? I'm interested in your knowledge of Concepts, constructs, definitions, theories, empirical findings, research findings within there. I'm not interested in things. Like, what day did this happen or what, uh, you know, memorizing dates or people's names?

I will use dates in people's names, though, but it's more as a heuristic to help you recall something. Um, I would never say who came up with this Theory and gave you four names. I would more. I'd be more likely to say, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Blah's theory on blah, blah, blah.

They sort of, you know, concluded this, this, or this, are they predict this, this, or this, something like that to help? Okay, don't leave the reading until a night or two before you're gonna get shot. Uh, I, I don't think it's any different than any other course you're taking, but don't underestimate how much reading is involved.

How much processing of the information is involved with six chapter plus the lecture material. Thanks a lot, so you got to keep on in each week got to create a schedule. And you know, I'm sure you guys know that, but it's important to, uh, to? Remember, approximately two-thirds of the items will come from the textbook and approximately one-third will come from the last year material, and you'll see that my election material sometimes overlaps with the textbook, but it's there to supple supplement that not to sphere to data.

Also, I'm using E-class, so you know you guys can follow on there, um? This is probably going to be a writing lecture, so you may want to grab a little bit. Uh, and then what do I want?

In today's lecture. I'm hoping to get through all these topics. I'm pretty sure I'm not going to get through theoretical perspectives, but I want to talk a little bit about the history of social psychology, and I want to delve into research methods, which hopefully will be reviewed for some of you, some of you might be just taking research methods now.

In your second year, taking a specific course on that, I'm going to give you a crash course on Dom and social psychologists we use, and then I'm going to, um. Get into theoretical perspectives. I don't want to lead you astray and to believe that there's only three research methods that associates there's more, but these are Dominicans one.

I don't spend a lot of time are qualitative methods, but it's like an amazing method. Um, I'm very important, uh, in terms of theoretical perspectives. I also don't want to lead you to believe that there's four theoretical perspectives that are using for psychology. There's a lot. These are dominant ones, and in fact, the best way to think about these are as families of theories, there's several learning theories.

There's multiple consistencies and balance theories, attribution theories, and exchange and actually theories. So, these are more like families and just some examples. Okay, um, I'm sure everybody here has heard the term. Don't reinvent the wheel. Yeah, what is meant by that? What do we mean by that? Yeah, like, don't make like a process more complicated than it needs to be.

Okay, so don't make a process more complicated in these three. Yeah, kind of related. Yeah, maybe, like, stick with what's proven to work. Yeah, right. Stick with what's proven to work if it if it ain't broke. Don't fix it kind of thing. Okay, any other? Interpretations don't reinvent the wheel.

Yeah, and you should expect sure, right? Um, and, and so, that's sort of why we might engage in that. It's a possible waste of time. Is it like Arkansas? It's very easy, but we have more easy solution, right, are minimized. It's kind of related to that. There's minimization of that, too.

If we don't, now we have to be careful with that, right, because somebody might have thought they had re hadn't vented the wheel, and it's pretty good that when I attach it to my cart, it goes. It makes it easier, but the wheel is elliptical, right? And so, the car does this when you're pulling it along.

And there is a better way to, uh, to design, uh, around your wheel, though, cuz we have to be careful that we don't simply abandon things in that process, but it's really important in terms of not wasting our time. Um, you know, we want to become masters of our universe.

And and have a. And deal with a scarce set of resources. I think last week I maybe mentioned the area of stress and coping, and just how it's burgeoning as an area. There's literally tens of thousands of barrels. And it becomes very difficult to assess the history of that area, right?

Because even in your, if you started out in your roots and stress and coping. There's no way in your lifetime, probably in this whole groups lifetime that you could read all the articles and reproduced on that, and so, how do you not engage in Reinventing the wheel, right? What does colossal ways if you come up with this really great idea, and you would come up with it 10 years ago, and you didn't know about that and wasted all of those resources, and so one of the things that we need to consider in any field.

It's not considered that often, but is resources, right? It's not just unlimited, you can't, just so we have to really assess what's been done. You know, get a sense of it, and then move on from there. So? With that in mind. How old is social psychology? His oldest time.

Okay, she says, it's all this time. Social psychology is. Yeah, I feel like social technology has been there for us ever since. I think I'm the reason, but okay. They didn't really start your life so that social psychology until like, later, sure. Okay, so if we think about, remember social psychology, how we think about influence and relate and one another based on the actual imagine implied presence of other people.

That thing I want you to expose in your minds. That definition has that been going on forever? It has. Yeah, we. We've studied ourselves from the get-go or. Um, more like in the United States Physicians the early 1900s. Okay, you say the early 1900s? Okay, so he says social psychology didn't become social psychology until the early.

Like, I think, right, how many times you? What is what you're saying? You can always exist when they moved into the console, I guess. Okay, and maybe we're, uh? Maybe we're not thinking about the same thing here. I'm presuming that people said since the beginning of evolution or since the beginning of time or whatever mean that we have been studying ourselves in this whole process.

And remember, how fundamental this thing is that. That's probably the case. What you're talking about is maybe something a little different, I don't know. Maybe, maybe not. Uh, the formal study of it, let's say, or the systematic study, uh, I don't think either are wrong. I think it depends if you're considering one of the words to it or just be made.

Sure. Yeah, so if we're thinking about more formal documentation, those kinds of things, yeah, the earliest studies were in around the 1900s. Um, when, when did psychology start? Even before time. Yeah. Uh, yeah. So, when did when did psychology start?

Yeah. I guess her argument is, it's the same. It's always been around okay, and it's like, technically, we didn't have a name for it until Troy and Floyd is psychology. Yeah, a little bit even before that, um. Looking good idea. So you're saying it's not necessarily when we play games with like when someone like first considered what is issue in mind.

Why are people how to do sure? I, I mean, I'm just, I don't know the. The answer to this question fully, uh, I think you guys are right about that, but there's probably we were thinking about these things a long time ago and have been studying it. When your grandma probably has some good ideas about, you know, social psychology, she might not call it.

That, or your parents might have that, and they've been studying people for a long time. But there is a formal study, and if we, when with psychology? Started or began well in human, independent discipline. In the late 19th century, okay, but we can see, like the whole movement of, like, moving to North scientific methods in general started with the AIDS of Enlightenment, which is like, sure, 18th yeah, science is pretty modern, uh, in terms of the history of human beings.

But yeah, I mean, does anybody? Everybody here is taking 10, 10, right? You wouldn't have gotten in here. Apparently, if you didn't have that, um? When did psychology start I need to remember when and who started it?

But there's this dude. I don't have heard about about it, the name deployed. Oh yeah, I heard about him, but there's a guy before that too, his name's bunt bunt, uh, German enlightened in 1879 or something. Well, yeah, so? That's when one of the first Labs was established in Psychology.

So, if social psychology is sort of an offshoot of that, probably it's a little more modern than that. And in fact, one wasn't even a psychologist. They didn't have them then, right? He was a he was a medical doctor. Um, and the methods they used all sorts of things, but they started introducing ideas associated with psychology.

Um, but it's, it's certainly older than that. In fact, um, you raised the early 1900s, one of the first textbooks that was published was in the 20s. Um, by a guy by the named Mickey, and it was all about instincts. Why do we do the things we do because we have this innate, uh, we're born to do these kinds of things that was sort of a strategy.

Behind those books, and then. Uh, a lot of what we know about psychology, sort of, came out of the first and second second world war. Um, uh, and so. There was, uh, that's sort of one of the key time periods that, uh, you keep in mind in terms of the formal study of site College, um, but?

Who said that? Yeah, Aristotle, Aristotle. Some Greek dude way back in the day, right. Long before 1879, they've been thinking about it, but long before that too, right? Um.

Long before that. People have been studying. How we think about influence and relate to one another based on the actual adding implied presence of others, not necessarily with that definition in mind. Now, over the years, we've learned a fair bit. Um and, and uh, but there's been changes in the formal study of psychology.

Um, and I want to talk a little bit about those changes. There's been changes in the focus. There's been changes in the issues, the participants, the research methods, the types of analyzes we do. Um, and so we've done a fair bit of work already in terms of formal, systematic study of social psychology and psychology.

In terms of changes in Focus. Um, initially, uh, social psychologist focus on instance. Um, these, and we do things because we're born to do them, essentially, what's? Uh, their approach to that. Then, we moved into studying attitudes. I'm going to be talking about a lot of these constructs as we move through the course.

Uh, but attitudes are sort of a Cornerstone of social psychology. Uh, and have huge implications. And despite that, there's still lots of work going on on attitudes. Then, we moved into an area where we were interested in consistency, consistency in terms of what people are thinking and doing, and uh, and this progress into attributions.

These things again. I will spend time on throughout the course. But attributions are essentially the reasons that we come up with. In terms of why things happen, just like a scientist, human beings are always trying to figure out. Why did that happen, right? So that they can help themselves.

They can control situations they can manage better. Um. We've then moved into areas of social cognition, which is essentially just thinking about ourselves and other people. It's a little bit more complex than that, but this first section of the course really rests on that notion, uh, and of dealing with things like automatic processing of information, so you probably know a little bit about this, but it turns out there's a lot going on below your level of awareness that actually have has an effect on you.

Um, and so there's people that study that you can imagine that's kind of complicated when we're trying to assess these things in people. Because if I don't know what's going on, how are you going to measure that? How are you going to find out what's going on? I don't.

I can't even tell you that it's going on, but we have our ways. Uh, we can tap into that, uh. Most recently, there's been a lot of work done in neurosocial site. Uh, culture is huge. Religion is huge and also best research practices. A lot of they call a lot of science.

It's not just social psychology, it's not just psychology science. A lot of scientists have sort of lost their weight in terms of the scientific method, which we're going to go over today and have been sort of more abusing it rather than using it. And drawing conclusions that really are not valid, not reliable as of our method, so there's a lot of people studying our best research practices and questionable research practices and the effect that test.

Um, there's also been. Changes in issues. Uh, again, because of, uh, what happened in the second world war, which a lot was rooted in Prejudice? These sort of unjustifiable, negative attitudes we have towards individuals or groups of people. So, there was initial studies in the social psychology were called Prejudice.

In the 60s, we started talking about aggression 60s and 70s. And then dry it into the 60s and 70s as well. Crying with any culturalism again is a big popular topic right now. As well as morality and religion. These are important topics that we attract over the course of studying social psychology.

There's also been changes in our participants. Changes in the gender of our participants. Um. Does anybody know? What the gender distribution is? A lot of psychological research. Mostly men. Um, well, it's it's interesting. There's there's been changes, right? So, in the early days, most of the research was done on him.

So, in, like, you know, in the? 50s, 40s, 50s. It was done. I mean, why would that be the case? Okay, when we think about, uh, psychology, and the study of it, probably a lot of people think, well, it goes on at universities, and you're saying that in those days, only men went to University, and there's truth to that.

They were, in fact, women weren't allowed in many respects. They were excluded, and so if who you're trying to study is even generally human beings, and you're in an environment where there's only men there, you tend to think that's the received view, right, that only they know that. Yeah, I think our doctor can also mention that most of her studies who are on women, yeah, married women, yeah, and so he may have, uh, actually broken.

Those and man, remember, this was when well before. There really were psych departments and. People were studying social science, the opposite of what she said. Yeah, exactly. The studies were mostly on men. Yeah, in Ford's case, it was mostly right, and he was probably studying more individuals and doing like case study approaches where, when we started looking at larger sample studies men were the focus.

So, for that reason as well, so there's lots of issues to work in here. But then, actually, it started swinging. That um? In the early days now. Now, what's interesting is that even though men dominated universities and that's what we tend to think accounted for, the focus on men, a lot of the research actually went to the communion.

At they, they didn't have participant pools, right? You guys know the undergraduate research participant pool the urpp. And, uh, but a lot of that. That's kind of a new idea. In the early days, they didn't have participant pools, and so they went to the community. And they still studied math.

They didn't try and study women in those situations. Yeah, get a part of it because they were more in the vulnerable population, like in prisons, or they were like soldiers. There's lots of different reasons that can account for that, I think yeah. Yes, to all of those kinds of things.

But there's also because they, at that time, they thought men were the receive year, right? They were the dong, and so if you want to find something else, go study men about that. How wrong that was, right? And there was no difference in perspective, or that they represented everybody and.

There are some studies afterwards like antisocial personality disorder, like a function. Yeah, um, like racial wise, is more men than women, so they're probably more the focus of study, right? Right, and for the all of those reasons, that was the focus. But then, it's switched. Anybody know? So it's switched from.

General, uh? Population to to college students that that was a switch that happened, so we would go to the community. And then, as things progressed and we found out how difficult that was. Let me tell you, although there's challenges associated with using like a site 1010 group of people.

It sure makes research much easier. I've worked in the environments where you actually had to go solicit individuals. It is painful, slow, um, awkward, all sorts of things. So even though there are challenges, it really changes things in terms of training people. How to design this commissions, but also in terms of understanding a phenomena.

But of course, we have to appreciate that if our sample is based on 19 year old site 1010 students that there's limits to what we can conclude, who we can generalize to in this situations. But initially, we went to the community. Then, we. Progress towards college students again because it was convenient and easy.

They started creating those tools, but the focus was largely on men, and then it switched to women. Which is kind of interesting, and I don't know why that is, but psychology went through this process of becoming feminist. Um, when I was sitting in my site 1010 class, there was a sorry.

In my 2120 class, there was about 50 50. Uh, and I bet you if I would get you guys to stand up. Don't worry about it right now. We'll have other opportunities where you'll stand up and represent, um. You, and if you just simply look around, my guess is that it is about 50 50 in this class, but I spent a couple of decades at York, where there'd be 100 students out there.

I'd get people to stand up. There would be 90 women and 10 guys for years and years and years. Do you think part of that is like a sort of like course correction for, like? Because like because psychology like sort of started out like, obviously, like, you know, pretty much only like only dealing with like research in men and then sort of like when?

Like when increased opportunities, I guess, became available. But like, there was sort of a degree of. Like, I, I don't know, like, necessarily, like if it had to like, explain it. But, like, do you think there could be? Yeah, like, course correction, I don't know, he's a compensation. Yeah, and I don't know the answer to that, uh, we can speculate on that, but you know, nursing was the same way.

Do you know what one point nursing was a male-dominated profession? Then, it became a female-dominated profession, and guys didn't want to do with them right. And now, it's sort of coming back again, but psychology followed a very similar fate, but it was very male dominated and then all of a sudden it became female.

Uh, dominant, and less. But now, the pendulum is swinging again. I, I can't tell you why that is, but it has. And of course, if you're using, uh, site 1010 sample, and it's female dominated. That's going to be the majority of your participants now, even though if you look out here, you've got about a 50 50 split when I do.

My studies and I use a broad range of samples, but I do use psyc 1010 students. I still get about 70 women. Why is that come on? Guys, you got to show up to these studies, right? Like, it's, it's volunteer. You can get credit card, but you don't show up for whatever the reason is.

I'm not sure why this you're too busy. But more women show up and participate and earn these points in these situations. So I don't know what the answer to that is, other than it has changed. And of course, it affects. Um, what we find, and it also affects the conclusion that we draw now.

What is important in terms of your credit scenario? You got your hand up. I'm going to come here. I, in terms of criticisms. Um, it's important to appreciate that if you're just getting a life. Of course, we have to be limited in our conclusions. We can draw from there, but it really, um?

If there. If your theory doesn't make any prediction about, it's going to happen for 19 year olds, like 10 students going to happen for 60 year old. You know, males, or whatever, if there's no reason to believe they're going to behaving or feel different, because that thing it doesn't matter and you need to appreciate that, right?

Uh, you shouldn't just use it. Well, it's a it's a site 1010 sample, so it sucks. We can't conclude anything, but that's not true. But you have to be a critical thinker of that and knowledgeable program. Yeah. Something that we talk better. Yeah, the introduction of like education and our developmental profits.

So, which were more like tuition? Yeah, absolutely. So there's lots of courses acting on this, I, I. I'm not going to sit here and tell you that it's one of those things, but things change and our samples have changed as a result of that and reflect those changes. I don't know why the pendulum is swinging back again.

I'm glad it is like, but it was. It was kind of painful in some of those years when I would get talk about these issues and there'd be like 10 guys in the class to find out in my day, you had to take a course like psycho women, you know, and there'd be like three guys in the clocks and the rest were women to get those kinds of numbers, but Um, and yeah, it seems to be shaking out again nicely, which is great because the issues are important.

Um, also, what are some of the other issues. So, in addition to site 1010, that one that's sorry for the, um, previous thing that we were talking about, can it be because, for, uh, for a while, I haven't? You know, that was so long, but um, I could see that, um, guys were resentful to its psychology.

For some reason, it's it's even through going to a therapist. They were, like, very, oh yeah, I don't want to go to a therapist. I'm not, you know, crazy, or something like this sure? Can it be a reason why they wouldn't, um, participate? Sure, they might be self-guarded shy.

All sorts of things not that I represent, but all of those kinds of things right might not want to, you know, admit there's an issue, and if they might not want to talk about it and. Um, it's a possibility, um. You'll notice I have M Turkers there. Does anybody know what that refers to M Turkers?

Yeah, it's like an online like research pool where I think it's like an online research, an online conversation. It's a crowdsourcing pool, so people criticize like 1010. They criticize lots of different things, and somebody came up, uh. Amazon Mechanical Turk and there turns out, there's a whole bunch of people out there who want to just do studies.

Is it all day and respond to questionnaires to make money for it. Not a lot, but this is what they do. There's others, so there's, uh, they're called M turkeys. There's also another one called prolific. It's run out of the UK, and they tend to have samples that are a little, uh, a little more diverse, some mineral older, so you know, your site 1010 student is like 19 years old, blah blah.

Blah has all these characteristics. Tim turkers are the same thing, but there's people who have criticized this, too, just like they criticize psych 1010 students, essentially being a psychology of site 1010 students. But now, it's like the m turkification of psychology. And why does that matter what I find?

Um, so in in Psychology, we are interested in relationship between variables. This thing here is going to predict this thing here, but the thing that fascinates psychologists, the most particularly social psychologist, is why, why does this thing here affect that thing there? And that's our Theory. Um and I find with M turkers, um?

When they're doing a study, they quickly realize what it is that that studies about, because that's what they're doing all day. They're like professional participants and their experience, and all these things. So, when you're testing out an association question, this thing here should positively relate or negatively relate to this thing.

You get confirmation of your hypothesis, but when you're trying to measure. That doesn't happen because they're not putting the time and effort into thinking and feeling the way you want them to think and feel in those situations. They're simply saying, oh, this is what this guy's interested in right, and I'm going to give him what he wants because I get a rating in terms of my quality, and I make more money when I'm a good participant and a good participant confirms my hypothesis, right?

Um, also, like, obviously personally, when I was doing all those like online tests and stuff, it's like 10 times. You can also tell that, like, in a way, we both conscious women so consciously want to show a certain version of ourselves. So, like if the test is like on a scale of, like, strongly disagreed, or strongly agree, how much would you agree, and it's something that societally, you know, people should agree with?

Sure, we're more inclined to click agree, even if we don't just because we don't want to show sure or go against that. Yeah, how many of you respond yes to this? Are you a racist? That's me. Might be a little politically Incorrect. So, and I, you know? I, you know, relationship, uh, social desirability is an important thing, right?

I know, I, I might, even, I might not even know that I'm that I might honestly be fooling myself, saying I'm not that right, but I could also be, I know I am, and it would be really uncool to confess that to somebody, right? And I don't want them to know that about me.

So I respond in a politically correct or socially desirable way. Now, it turns out, it's kind of interesting that certainly limits some people. We have measures to tap into that so we can partial out those aspects in our research. Um, but people I find are more than happy. To confess stuff, so I think it's a less of an issue then.

This is just my own personal experience, but I've asked, you know, over the years, some sensitive stuff, and I'm amazed that people say that's ooh. Uh, and they're quite happy about it in those situations. So, you know, I don't know if there's anything to do that or not, or how serious of a problem is, but we can measure it and tap into it.

The thing is, and yeah, there's been changes. Over the years. To all these things, there's different reasons for it when we are being critical of research. I don't want you just to come and say. You know, well, I was a female sample. Oh, was college students or oh, it was M Turkers and and say that it's all crap because of those reasons.

You need to appreciate how do those things challenge the theory or the conclusions or the research. And if there's no good reason for that, you need to sort of, you know, uh? But you do need to appreciate and know what the challenges are to those situations. Um, what else?

I know there's more.

Sorry guys!

Um. Okay, there's been changes in analysis. In the early days, we spent a lot of time talking about univariate analysis. They're doing univering analysis. What is it meant by that?

One variable. It's not really one variable. You need a minimum of like two right to look at, but it means a small number of of variables, okay to, then a lot of our analyzes. We're simply looking at the relationship between this thing and this thing here. And then we progressed into a multivariate.

Uh, set of analyzes, which is pretty dominant. Now, I presume we don't have to spend too much time talking about it. It basically means multiple variables, right, multiple predictor variables, and potentially multiple outcome variables that we might be looking at. What u? Which one's better? In any situation. Psychology.

Okay, you say, a better understanding of the world is to take a multiple multivariate approach that more variables gives me more power in terms of prediction, I think you should be aware of your variables because those can come down into your original um or the original assumptions, so you should be aware of everything to make sure you should be aware of your compound variables so you know what?

What's impacting the original variable? Otherwise, you're just going to get lost at all. Okay, okay, um? Is very strong in, like one-on-one predictions, as long as like as she said, you're controlling career confounding or, like, you're paying attention that there might be another Factor that's affecting them, but also multivariate gives you the opportunity to explore the multiple different variables that might be affecting something, and it also allows you to explore interaction effects between them.

Sure, maybe if there's something in variables one and two that will affect the outcome of variable. Agree. But if you drop one or two and you won't get the same effect in three, how many variables make up a person? Yes. A lot, right? Who knows? Think about the key variables.

All the intrapersonal interpersonal environmental forces acting on us? And so, what should we seize upon in terms of understanding? Why, how people do the things they do? Um, you know, isn't multivariant? How many? How many bits of information can a human being remember? Process at any time. Anybody taking the cognitive site?

How many bits of information can a human being do? At any given time. Yeah, eight, eight too many. I think it's like seven plus nine sure five or six plus or minus, probably changing a little bit. Not many, so even though there's a bazillion variables out there that could capture you.

Human beings have limited capacity right, and probably that limited capacity means that, uh, they're not going to have full information. We talked about inferences last week. We're making conclusions from limited data. We're doing that all the time. As human beings, the if I could measure everything about you, I could have 100 prediction, right?

Uh, but I can't, so our theories probably reflect better the kinds of variables that human beings deal with and human beings probably deal with the big dogs, right? Like, there's these bazillion variables, but there's probably. Three or four or five that actually really matter and count for a significant amount of this outcome that we're interested in.

And if that's the case, then we might think a multivariate world is a more. It gives us more knowledge, better understanding all of these things. It might, not because human beings aren't attending to all of those variables that we think are important. What we need to do is focus on the variables and the numbers that human beings are using in their world to negotiate their world to make social decisions and act and include those in our theories and our analyzes.

And my guess, is that a more some kind of moderate, uh, more univariate. A little bit of multivariate, but uh, the guy who trained me, he said. Yeah, this is all based on theories. Theories identify the number of variables, their relationships. I'm going to talk more about that, but he said.

Theories are like dogs, the big ones. They don't lash that long, you know, those great things that look like little horses. They only last about 7 years, right? That's all they lift the little dogs. They go on forever kind of thing, and theories are very much the same way.

Why is that? I don't know. My guess is that when you have a big Grand Theory with lots of different variables. It's not what people use, it's too much information. It's too hard to test them. They don't reflect and represent the actual State of Affairs, and so that's why they don't last long.

They don't have a lifespan. We're the little ones that do capture the essence of what people are using, and so those things matter. So that is sort of captured, you have to be careful in terms of our model. The other thing that we're really focused on more than anything lady is this notion of mediation.

It comes back to this thing here is related to that. Why is mediation mediators are the theoretical explanations for? Two things happen. What do I mean by that? You might find there's a relationship between gender and aggression. Turns out that boys are more aggressive than girls. That's interesting, important to know why.

Why is it? Why does that happen? What kind of what counts for that? Um, maybe it's because they are physically stronger. That's why, sure, they've got muscles. They use them. Have you ever heard of something called testosterone? Um, that actually is highly linked to aggression. What about socialization? Guilty.

I have a son. I have two daughters. I treat them differently. I have different expectations about them. We all do, right? So, I don't know what the answer to that question is, I'm sort of. We can move along, but, uh. But basically that's why, and that's what is important, right?

Otherwise, we're just describing we're saying indeed, boys are more aggressive than girls, but we really want to know why there's often multi-factors, multimediation, or multi-mechanisms that can account for things. It's rare that you find the explanation it's using multi-mechanistics. So, yeah, that's where a lot of the analyzes are sort of focusing on now and capturing bigger.

You know, complete models with sort of a ringed number of variables, okay? So, essentially, those are the kinds of things, um, that social psychologists. Um, have been looking at and changes in those kinds of things, and I don't want to lead you to believe that. That's all there is.

There's certainly other things we've learned a lot through this research, but there's still things that we're looking at, um. More recently. We've been looking at. Oh, changes in recent appointments, too. Mention that question that's questionable research about it, so people studying, like, how was the study done under, you know, didn't use the scientific method?

Didn't do it well?

Okay, uh. So what are we doing? I'm just going to put this card here. While this technology is not working right, so what? What are people looking at again? These are just some examples, so social cognition still tends to be something that we're continue to spend a lot of time on trying to understand how individuals make sense of themselves and other individuals.

Social neurosciences a big part of that, too, and this is studying how the brain structures and functions, um, affect things like cognition of motion and behaviors. And then also getting into other issues around research methods, both statistical methods and research methods, which are different from each other. Um, they're part of our methods, but they deal with different aspects.

So our TV? Uh, associated with something called P hacking. Some of you will know that. One of the criteria we believe in Psychology. There are many sort of the worth of value of findings input and have a p-value of less than 0. There's things you can do. Questionable things you can do to lower your p-value to make it more palatable to other scientific to help keep acting.

And there's a lot of people doing work on that. There's also something called not with hypothesis statistical testing, um. Uh, and that's basically associated between hacking, but it is, uh, something that people question. Um, and, uh, people doing research on that and the issue there is. It gives us something, but a lot of people think it gives us something else.

It's saying something else, then, well. Um, we wanted to say so. There's issues associated with that.

Okay, so. Hi, in social psychology has an extensive history. Um, but in terms of recorded history, it's only been scientifically studied for essentially. A century Our Century, and we've learned a lot. And, but there's still a lot more to know. In terms of? How we think about influence and relate to one another based on the actual imagine and implied presence of other people, and that process of finding that out is referred to as research.

What is that? So, what is research?

Okay, she says, the process of asking and gathering information like to add on to it, like you're doing it systematically. So, it's not random, so you're using a specific systematic procedure to do said questioning and asking okay, fine. So research is only research if I go. If I ask a question and I do that in a systematic way, if I just simply go and read a newspaper, you know, remember those things that I know some different?

Now, I think we probably still call it. Newspaper, I'm not sure, um, but if I go and read, you know, a news site or something like that or a newspaper? Am I engaging in research? You say, yes, you say, no? Uh, because it's not systematic, or if I'm trying to gather information, well, it depends.

Like, if I guess it goes back to like what your, what's your hypothesis? Like, what are you trying to figure out if it's in relation to what is written in news articles and you read one. That's not really necessarily going to give you any grounds in order to do research.

You need to be like, you need to have something consistently like you can't be reading one news article. Then you go to one, you know, you ask a friend, and then, because all those things are going to vary. So, you're not really going to have a standard Baseline to follow in order to get proper research.

Yeah, what you're saying, but it might also provide some breadth of information. Wow, I'm reading it in the New York Times and reading it in the globe. My friends are talking about it. My mom and dad are talking about it. You know, kind of thing, and is that valuable in finding out information feeling like you've got your finger on the pulse?

In those situation, or is it only systematic by saying, I want to find out what is being reported in the newspaper and go and get every single newspaper that you can in your general area and assess. How they're writing about these issues. Well, I guess that's the difference between quantitative and qualitative research inside.

If you're doing a quality that we want, like very specific details. Whether you can also do a mixed research methods approach, where we combine both of these methods, so we get multiple newspapers we look at, and then we also do interviews of people in the situation. And then we've created a whole series, but is research only a formal?

Systematic. I know you talked about hypotheses, too. Does it have to be hypothesis driven? What if it's just like, I wonder? I wonder what they're saying about this? I wonder without having an expectation or a prediction about that, like surveys. I guess, but surveys can, too. I can still collect data on something survey people on variables and everything, and look at associations.

I can just look at those to see what, but I could also have some expectations of that, too. But my point is. Does it have to be one of those things or the other, or does that matter, or is research a broader thing or a very? Specific systematic thing, so I think when you're doing research in the interest of learning, then you would probably be looking at, like, police.

I don't reinvent the wheel you'd be looking at, like peer reviewed articles you'd be looking at, like a bunch of different, uh sources, and you'd be looking at stuff in order to gain information on the topic. But if you're producing research and you were like trying to experimentations not super great in Pike, but like if you're doing like correlational research, or you're trying to find stuff like that, then that's more of the system matter approach that I think she was talking about which case you do need a hype up.

You do need like different explanations, and you need like different wages. Look for similarities because? Sure. Okay, good, that's getting really one more. And then, I'm gonna move. I think you should be a very casual thing because you're being like early at school, where you can take a research a project you should be able to.

We are doing something you know? That's considered research, and there's a performance when travel research. I think the most important things is not just, um, a variety of particles of the source, the following the sources anymore. Yeah, you know, I, I have colleagues. We have a very strong what's called history, Theory, and critical thinking area in our department, and most of those colleagues are historians.

And try to imagine what they do. They're not out there running experiments and looking at correlations between variables. But if I told them what you do is not research. You cannot believe what kind of a battle I would get into and how insulting that would lead to them. In fact, it's an ongoing issue.

I don't ever think that I totally get get what they do, and I see it as research. But, you know, they're basically reading historical documents. And come into conclusions based on that. There's nothing I don't know if it's systematic or not, I guess from time to time, but it's, um, it's fairly broad and just set out on another thing.

Another perspective you can look at it is like when you do, like, market research for like a product. For example, thinking about, like, oh, what would someone need in like a specific Niche when you're developing a product, you're you're kind of seeing, like, what do people want? And in that sense, it's like, if you're developing something new.

It's not like you have something standard to like research, but like, you just kind of learn right about it. And then from there. These groups and a lot of that is qualitative, but quantitative as well. Quite small groups. I mean, one of the things the criticism in the past was when we were doing research.

It had to be like large, and today I'm going to talk about representative samples how important those kinds of things are, but I one thing about qualitative work that has made me really even more submit with it now than I was before. That is, it's really remarkable. What you can glean about a topic from cert from interviewing 10 or 15 people?

In fact, after that point, you reached this thing, called saturation, and essentially, you get no new ideas after that. It's remarkable for such a small group of people that you can really put your finger right on the pulse. Uh, it's really great that way. Um, and yeah, the way I see research is.

This process of asking? And answering a question. Research is simply about asking and answering a question, and we use a set of systematic procedures to help protect us against bias. So, I see research as. Um, this method of asking and answering a question with a set of systematic procedures, which assist researchers in avoiding bias.

So, I know, you mentioned this earlier, and so this is sort of how I see it. But I just realized now in the process of this, I should have asked you guys something that I early on at the beginning of class that I want to come in a little later, and so once you write that down, if you're doing the writing down part of it.

Without that, I want to just ask a few questions.

How many of you think you're going to do better than average? How many of you think just raise your hand? This is not the time for modest people. If you think you're going to do better than average in the class. I need you to raise your hand because I want everybody to look around if you think you're going to do better than average in this class?

Raise your hand. Okay, raise it up if you truly feel that you'll get a sense of. It's not time for modesty. Raise it up and keep it up because I want people to look around. Can you raise your hand up if you think that people just look around how many people don't respond how you think I want you that politically correct way, um?

How many people have their hands up? Would you say? Is it 50? Honestly, you guys if you feel that raise your hand high so we can see it. Not everybody has their hand height, so I want people to look around. Is it more than half? Raise your hand high if you think you're gonna do better than the average in class.

Look around it's a more than fifty percent. No, it's like 40, it's only 40. Even less. Uh, yeah, I, I say, it's more than that. I'd say it's about 60 percent. What's an average? What's an average? For me to find what that is. Yeah, it's when you take the grand total of the sum and divide it by the number.

So if over 60 percent of the people think they're going to do better than the average, then you actually do better than the average. You have 60 well, uh, well, I'm going to come back here. Yeah, what's an average? Um, well, that's like the mathematical way to, yeah, tell me how does one?

What? What is an average? Okay, go for you. You would like to find the average grade? You would take everyone's grade, add it all up, and then divide it by the total number of people in the class or the tell the number of people who took the exam. Yes, okay, more important, right?

So you want to add up all the scores and divide it by the number of people who contributed that scores. And it produces this one value, right? It's called a measure of central tenancy. This is often what we're doing when we're assessing people. We're trying to reduce all of you.

I'm so sorry about that, down to one number, right, uh, on average, a benchmark where you can gauge yourself. There's this thing called, um. Called the normal distribution. Have you ever heard of that? The idea is that we're reviewing certain things in life. Uh, particularly, achievement oriented things it, uh, it basically.

Is represented by something called a normal distribution, and what a normal distribution looks like and is. In terms of our grades. So you have, like, eight. Plus, you have F, and you have, let's call it five. Percent 68. Percent in another five percent, and it it represents all of your scores on that first exam are probably going to represent this thing called a bell curve.

Normal distribution. And what this normal distribution essentially says, is that sorry, that's a little bit too high. I was a little bit too ambitious there.

Basically, when you write your first exam, there's going to be a an average and that average, let's call it a c. Does anybody know what the scene is? What the average for a c greatest 65, 60 to 65? Okay, something like that? I know nobody thinks they're right, you know, average, or wants to be average.

But that's in fact, the qualitative anchor to that is average. That's what that means. And basically, when people follow a normal distribution, essentially, we get this mere image and the vast majority of people are going to end up with this C and the and the majority of them are going to be here.

In here, 68 percent in a small number of people. Uh, this is not really a good place for that. This would be like if this would be like a plus. This would be C. This is like B something and D something over here. Okay, so forget about the vertical axis.

This is just on the, and so, if you, if something unfolds in terms of a normal distribution, we get this near image of responses. And the average is using this Middle Point here. The mean median mode, those measures of central tendency, are all going to be the same, but essentially what it says is that, um, you get the same number of people above that mean as below that mean?

So it would be statistically impossible for more than 50 percent of you to get above average on that exam. Now, I think I've got a very modest class. I think it was more than 50. It wasn't that much more. I called it 60, but there's times I've had 80 percent of people put up their hands and say, yeah, I'm gonna do better than average.

How could that be? How could it be that 80 of people think they're going to do above average when that's not how it shakes out or it's going to shake out?

I think, because like in our heads, when we're initially asked that question, we think average based off of what we think is average, and everyone has like a different idea. So, like in my head, when I initially thought average, I thought like? A bee, so, and then someone else might think an average is a c.

So right, it could be a b, but I just mean in terms of the. How many of you think you're going to do better than average in this class that there's going to be an average score could be a c. It could be a, b, and listen if everybody here gets 90 and above.

I'll give you an A plus. We'll get fired, but I'll do it. I'll give everybody a new class of this course, and in this exam. If you do that, but it's not going to shake out that way. I'll tell you what it's going to shake out like that. Um, I don't know what the mean is going to be tend to have, like a, b, average, and then it's a little loaded more towards that, but essentially it's going to be around.

The reason we think we're going to do better has to do with that bias, where we just pause. Why would we think that, I mean, do you get up, you know, most days, and say, today's going to be where I'm my less than self. Kind of saying, no, right, I mean, who, how would you, can you imagine coming and saying, I'm gonna fail.

That exam gives you horrible. I'm going to do less than average. We don't do that, right, that's self-serving. Bias and also people are optimistic because it's the start of the year. Yeah, there's. It's the start of the year, but you've got a year under your belt, likely in terms of knowing how this thing all shakes out.

But maybe that changes? It could also be like, because you know, majority of people only have you know, a year, under their belt, they spent most of last year, and first year classes where the dropout rate is incredibly High, sure. So they might have information, but it is kind of interesting that we find.

As I find this over and over again when I ask and what could explain that when it's a statistical impossibility, and yet the vast majority of people think they're going to do better than average. And I think there's probably some functional value in that, right? I don't know if you've ever been down about anything right or thought that it's, you know, that you perform poorly.

It's not, like, you're totally revved up to go at it again in the future, right where, if you did. Well, now, you can't, right. You can feel like you're backed into a corner, dig down and and go forward. But the there's some value in thinking that you're going to do better than average, and this is what is referred to as self-serving.

Bias. We'll go another 10 minutes or so, and then we'll take a break. Okay, uh, this is the self-serving bias, which is this tendency we have to view ourselves favorably. You can imagine the functional value. Have you ever hung out with somebody who's a little dampened down? It's up sometimes, right?

Um. By people who are happy? Who said it tells in a positive light, they tend to be a little bit more engaging. So, just in terms of social function, there's real value in that, seeing yourself doing better than average. Yeah, I have a question. Is this the same thing as when we are in a negative situation, we think that negative result is not going to happen to us.

Is that the same thing, uh, possibly? I don't know much about that, but, uh. It's possible that that's right, you know, that if you're speeding, you're going to get a ticket, but you're like? Yeah, you risk it. That's another, yeah, probably something else worked into there, too. Um, where you think I have really good luck, and uh, yeah.

Doesn't itself serve in buyers also like, carry some weight to your self-protection. So, like people who raise their hands like, aren't we now more likely to, you know, want to uphold what we think about ourselves, so I might study harder in an attempt to actually score up a beverage because I think that I should, or I can't, sure, yeah, there's.

So, there's lots of different explanations for why that is, but why we do these things, but essentially the idea is that it's self-serving in some way to make yourself have a better view of yourself. One of the first things we're going to talk about. Next class, I believe, is the self-concept.

And this is kind of related that. How about this? Do you know that there's a strong positive correlation in Toronto? Between the number of religious institutions and our murder rate. Did you know that strong, positive correlation between the number of religious institutions and the murder rates? What do I mean by that?

Because you answer what I mean by that. Yeah, okay, what do? I mean, you're saying that as more religious, um, like institutions go up, big primary goes up. Yeah, murder rate goes up, right? So, it's true, right? Religion does cause violence in America. Right? And just some new faces here.

Sorry, I don't want to quash the regular responders like that. I mean, I don't think that's necessarily true because of the whole thing of the correlation versus causation, right? You can't just look at one being correlated on obvious movement therapist. Okay, so you're not disputing that that correlation exists.

You're just saying that's not a good interpretation of it. Yeah, okay, what? How should I interpret that? So, why is that? Why is it that the more religious institutions in Toronto, the higher the murder rate? What relationships have this thing where they intend to set up new ones around other areas and the more populated an area is, the more statistically possible there will be more crime.

Oh, that's an awesome insight about that. So it's not that religion causes this kind of violence. It's that that there's violence and religion goes to it. Right and helps? In those situations, so that's another possible interpretation of that, because with correlation, you don't know whether this thing's going there or this thing's going there.

In those situations, so that's a possibility. Any other insights, uh? Something similar to that is poverty, so it's more common for people in poverty to be religious and of, like, have that as a part of their life and and all causes. Yeah, yeah, I know, you're saying, yeah, so right.

And so, what you're identifying here is that there could be a third variable problem. What happens what a third variable is, a variable that can explain another relationship that doesn't quite make sense. What could that variable be poverty? Maybe what else? What's what's Toronto got? Population people. It's not only Toronto that has that any large Urban center has this correlation between religious institutions and the murder rate, because the more population you have, the more religious institutions you have, the higher the murder rate is.

So there's this third variable that can explain that. How about this? Do you know that there's a negative relationship between the number of electronic devices in the home, an unwanted teenage pregnancy? I got a teenage daughter. Should I be buying her iPads blenders? You know, iPhones? Yes, um. In that situation.

Yeah, I kid you not that there's a negative correlation between the number of electronic devices in the home and unwanted negatives or unwanted teenage pregnancy. So, the more those things less of that? And that once again goes into the fact of like. Not always, but you know, statistically, you know, we see teenage pregnancy more so and?

Poor communities, and that they therefore can't probably afford a lot of technology. So that's why we might see that correlation, okay, kind of related to that, uh, you, and then you should. Yeah, um, another thing we can add is that they have more access to social media. They can be more knowledgeable, so maybe they know more.

Okay, sure, I just said, until Nisha said, um, I would say. If you have more electronics, that sort of thing they tend to be more expensive. The more money you have, the better education you might have to know about teenage pregnancies. And then, also like if you do get pregnant.

You probably have the resources, and so, yeah, all of these are potential third variable problems. Uh, more money. You make, probably tied to education. Probably, we know that, you know, more education. You make more money, make more money you can afford to have, um, more electronic devices. But then, what accounts for the relationship to unwanted teenage pregnancy?

Maybe it comes to education and understanding birth control. Maybe it's access to birth control and health, uh, it's being able to afford those things as well, so it's a third variable that explains that as well, simply because, like, you're so focus on the electronics at home. You're not going out making those social connections.

Yeah, right. So, who knows what the answer to that is, but it's probably a third variable problem in those situations. Uh, one more in that item. It's just a question about the concept of, like, the correlation is, can there be more than like a third variable? So, say, um.

Just on average, the number of electronics hold because we become more dependent on them is growing. So, therefore, there's more and also not related to that, like amount of like race control being contributed or amount of Education or information, going statistically all of those things. But what that is is an illusory correlation, and that's seeing correlation between things that doesn't really exist.

And we do that. We can see that. And it can be used, but there are multiple explanations, probably multiple third variables for whatever variables that can account for that, but it leads to an illusory correlation scene associations where they don't really exist. But I think people are ready for a break.

Is that right? Okay, 15 minutes. I don't know what time he got on your device. Look at it, or he got it.

You sometimes have this tendency when you're judging other people to particularly something negative happens to see it as a function of band something about them. Right in those situations. Okay now, um? Imagine the next exam after that. You are the one who doesn't do well. And you run into that person after grade, and you're exhibiting some distress.

And they say, what's going on, you say? Well, remember, last exam. Well, this exam, I did really poorly. Um, what are your attributions then about that? Well, because even with the last test, I would probably think, like, if I also did poorly and they did poorly, I tried to blame it on the test and say, oh, well, the test was too hard.

It's not me, right, if that was the case, but you didn't this, is it? But now you've done poorly, and so is that what you might do? You might say that was a killer exam, so blame it on the test or Professor sucks or something like that.

And what I'm hearing a lot of is not me. It's the situation kind of right. So when something negative happens to another, we're sort of all in on you. Not the situation. Right? However, when something's negative to me, it's all about the situation. And not about me and my lack of effort.

And I study strategy, my getting stuck right, and those situations. Um, and that's referred to as the fundamental activation. Here it gets a little bit more complicated than that, and I'm going to just spend a couple of minutes on that, but the fundamental attribution error is this tendency we have when we're judging others to see disposition as the cause and not the situation to overestimate disposition or the person and to underestimate the situation.

But there's, it matters whether it's positive or negative. When it's negative two, it's all about you, not the situation. When it's negative mean, it's all about the situation and not meaning. Now, think about the reverse of that. The first time you saw that person, they were totally ecstatic excited after that first exam, and you asked why he said, wow, like 87 exam pretty well.

What are we think in that situation? Okay, she said. They were probably lucky. In that situation. Oh yeah, that's a great course. Information's easy, those kind of things. Yeah, I did really good. Yeah, I tried and really good. Yeah, okay, that other, but when you're judging that other person?

Thinking that that I did really good, or you're you're, I'm talking about your judgment of that person. I would say that, oh, they're smart, okay. Ignore the hard-working part, okay? If it's like someone else that's doing mobile, you're kind of like, oh, like, it was probably the situation of like the test was really easy for them, this or that, sure.

Like, we don't always think, like, oh, they just right. And then, think about yourself. In that same situation, the next example, after you're not, you dream hardly, but you do really well. Not that you're thinking course socks? Or is it difficult exam you're thinking about? Wow, how amazing am I right?

And so, when something negative, and we're judging others. It's all about them, and not the situation when it's something negative, and we judge yourself. It's all about, uh, the situation and not herself. When something positive, we get the complete opposite of that. When it's positive, it's all about the situation.

That's an easy course. It's easy information. How could you not learn in that course? Lot about the situation anymore. In the course and environmental factors is all about you and your capacity, and I think when it's something negative about ourselves. We try to cope and deflect like, we don't want to take that accountability.

It's a tangled web, we we in these situations in many respects, but it gets even a little bit more complicated than that, um. That we have this. Hedonic bias, as well as his fundamental attribution error. Uh, but we also have this thing called an actor Observer effect, which I want to work in there as well.

And that is again all of this stuff together. Is it matters whether I'm judging you or judging me? That's the actor Observer effect. If I'm observing you and judging you. I have one set of judgments if I'm judging me or observing me. I have another set of. You know, judgments.

If it's positive or negative information and also the attributions, so these all. Uh, come together, uh, the fundamental education there. The actor Observer bias, which is when we're judging others. Our affects. We're judging Indians or affects, and our judgments are affected by the perspective of the judge, whether I'm an actor or an I'm an observer.

Uh, and this hedonic bias that we're trying to maximize goodness and minimize that. And so, all of this to suggest that human beings are biased in the way we protect information, right? We have this fundamental attribution there. This hedonic bias this actor Observer effect we have these illusory correlations.

I could go on for the rest of lecture, listing all of the biases we have. How could, how could that be? Is, there is the truth matter. His. Things matter. How could we, if we're so biased? As human beings. How could we have? How can we build this building?

How can we develop education? How could we do these things if we're so biased? What could explain that?

Always biased towards yourself. They would like to build a building to build the very first buildings, and it was like, hey, instead of doing a right angle through this angle, and then your bias on that. So I think maybe the fact of like how the music, social judgments, the greatest become better?

Okay, you're saying they actually. These biases work for us. Yeah, in some way. That's how that's what could explain it. We're so biased, and bias is an inaccurate view of the way the world unfolds. Doesn't that matter? Um. Well, um, I think it's kind of like it was, like, people like to believe, um, bad things happen to bad people.

Okay, sure, I get how that protects. It's all sort of there to protect ourselves in some way. But is there some overall Advantage is an important question, how could we be biased and be so successful? You would think there would be to be some kind of critical analysis some objective.

In order to be successful, and I guess the only way I can sort of grasp, this is a lot of these biases that human beings have have been selected out over time because they're functional. They work. What do they do more often than not? They minimize the biggest mistakes.

These things more often than not are in place to minimize those mistakes. And that's why, over time, over time, over time, they kind of work for us now. I'm also not trying to imply because people aren't able to think objectively or relatively clearly. That's where critical thinking I'll come out of to try and develop those skills.

But that's what could explain them. Okay, so? Um, next thing I want to talk about if human beings are biased in this way. Probably it affects. Not only the types of questions we ask, but how we answer those questions. Right. So when we go back to what research is all about, it's about asking and answering a question with a set of systematic procedures that help protect us against bias.

And so, that's what the scientific method is. It's basically human beings are biased, and we need to take that into account so that we can get a more accurate assessment or test of something, and so these biases are part of that process, and the scientific method was developed in order to manage those those situations.

Like, and the scientific method.

You have to begin with a research question. I think. This thing is related to that thing. Um, you know, one of the things I often try to work with is you've probably heard, uh, that watching violence on television can lead to? Right, and I think that there's a fair bit of evidence that shows that this is really a big issue for kids, right?

So, if kids watch aggressive television, they're more likely to progressively. But, you can wonder that, is there a relationship between watching life community on television not being aggressively when this talk is starting to be explored. Of course, all the television stations and Hollywood that were promoting violent movies. They're trying to argue, no, no, it's just, you know, you're not going to turn violent just because you're watching it kind of thing.

Suspicious of these mode as well. As it turns out, there's a fair bit of evidence to support this idea now that if we are watching Violent from television. We're going to be more aggressive, but let's say this is our question that we think kids who watch more violence on television are going to be aggressive.

Then we need to choose a fear. What's a theory?

Be left. Therefore, you're more likely to act. Yeah, so some idea about how things unfold or how things happen. That's what your your definition of the theory is. Okay, any other? Okay, right? So a theory can answer why, to some extent, but it might also just capture relationships between variables and not necessarily tell us, right?

It's possible, um? Me a theory is a reasonable set of variables or constructs. A theory is a reasonable set of variables or constructs. That interrelate and help us to understand. Why and how things and form. So, a theory is a reasonable set of variables and constructs that interrelate and help us to.

And help us to predict, control, and understand some phenomenal. There is a reasonable set of variables and constructs that digital relate and help us to understand.

Measurable. Sure, but I probably can measure.

So, it is.

Sure. Sure, that's the type and I would do it. I want to go back to the answer to that question. How many business information. Can you sending your mind? What's your reasonable said, probably around four or six variables? Again, I've seen theories with 10, 12, 50 years is two complex.

The number of variables, how they would need to relate. Is a couple is too few made me. Okay, so the readings that I would be reflects. What if he being healed? So that's how I would argue that, so you have to choose the theory, I think, um. Watch violent television are going to become more aggressive, okay, and we're gonna get at why that in a little bit.

Um, and maybe the idea there. The theory is social learning here. I'm going to talk about that at some point, but you watch other people. Do things you see that it works for them. So then you try and imitate it and do it. And voila, it works for me.

So that could be the explanation for why this happens. Then, we need to make a hypothesis. What's that?

What's that? It's an if then statement. Sure, that's still a little inaccessible, right? What is the hypothesis? Yeah, it's a prediction. It's a prediction. Yeah, a prediction about how two variables or more would relate to each other. Did you want to sure, it's an educated guess. Yeah, it's an educated guess, maybe rooted in your theory about how those things?

Yep. To focus on improving. Sure, yeah, it's a testable research question, right? I think there's going to be a relationship between watching violence on television and acting aggressively. So, what's your prediction? The more violent television you watch, the more aggressive you're going to be. That's what your prediction is.

It's a testable question that comes out of that.

Choose a sample. What's a sample?

I okay, so she says a sample is a subgroup. Would you say? Of individuals that represent a population. A population is everybody. Whenever we're doing a study, are we talking about human beings from all over the world? Sometimes lots of times we are. Do we ever sort of toxin those ways, but um?

Might be talking about torontonians or Canadians or. Europeans or something like that. So that's your population, uh, in those situations, but remember going back to resources and research, we are limited in terms of what we can do, and it's it. Like, if the population was even site 2120 students, it would be a lot at York over this Academic Year.

Choose a sound, a subset of 2100 social students, and so, but there's different kinds of samples. But there's basically this subset. And this subset comes from the population, and so, how do we choose that sound? How do we choose that subset of people? Okay, she says she's going to.

Um, do what's called a random sample? What's a random sample? Generally thinking randomly. So, if, like, 10 people come through a room, I'm going to ask every person that comes through that room. But if it's a majority, I might just play every good person I'll ask for every. Okay, well, even that sounds a little systematic, uh, random.

Okay, you want to say, yeah, I was just gonna say, like, you could also do like a stratified sample if you need like, you know, like, if you have like population stuff, there's another one. So that's another kind of sample, but a random sample is when everybody in that population has an equal chance of being selected.

Do that. So here's our population, please. Here's our sample. It's smaller than that.

And. Our population looks like this. Right. However, think of that as pieces of a pot. Uh, gender, culture, religion. But if I'm interested in a population, it's usually way too big, so I need to get a subset. But that subset, because that's what I'm interested. If I take a step set of people and they don't look like that when I'm done, my study.

It can't then go back and say, oh, so this happens for all people in 2020 or whatever. I can't say that if that doesn't look like that. The way to make that look like that is to do random sampling, where everybody in that population has an easier chance of getting selected.

This is kind of fascinating if you take 1200 people randomly from any calculator. You can 95 confident that it will have the characteristics of that population. Doesn't matter how big of a sample it is, how big of a population it is if you take 1200 people randomly? From that population, you can do 95 confident.

There, so that whatever you find out. Here you can generalize back to that thing there. Um, that's really quite fascinating. Does anybody know where you read about random samples and getting those kinds of numbers? I don't know how few guys have been reading any empirical articles? It's rare in Psychology that you look at an empirical article with unsend your multiple studies and you find samples that are 1200 or more and randomly selected from the population more often than not.

Reusing site 1010 students and turkers. Prolific other community samples. They're nowhere near 1200 people, and so almost everything we're getting is biased, right? We're not doing that.

Meta-analyzes meta-analyzes not necessary, but it can add up to these are systematically, but they might not be chosen randomly in that situation, right? Yeah. Calls for like survey data? Yeah, what kind of surveys are we doing maybe sure that we might get it there? You know where holsters voting?

Money where their mouth is right, or they don't get hired next time, and they make a lot of money to take the temperature of a group of people to find out what way they're going to vote, who they're going to vote for, and they need to be confident about that, right?

So that's where you see often when you hear a poll. It's like 1192 people plus or minus something or other, but it's around that 1200 Mark. They've been chosen randomly from our if it's Canadian or Ontario or Toronto or whatever. And that's where you see that, but it's rare that you see a random sample so more often out.

We have biosentials. There are convenience samples. I might give a questionnaire to you guys to find out something or we use 1010, which is not necessary convenient, but it's more convenient than a random sample, but you rarely see this.

If I do a lab study and in lab study, usually the classic social psychological study takes about an hour. But I need about an hour and a half to process each partnership, right? If I had to do 1200 people in every single study that I was interested in. I would be one study in my career basically, right?

Um, and so, there's these kinds of limits on this as well, but Anya, you need to choose a sample and the reason you want. This thing here to look like that thing here. The same percentage of men and women, the same percentage of this culture, that culture, this religion that religion, all of the pachadelos, the Nuance that's in any population, should be represented in that.

There. Once we have that, then we do. A study. And we. One of three dominant research methods we either do not experiments, which is often called correlational. I don't like the term correlational because it's a statistical technique. It's not a research method, but it's often called correlational and single experiment.

Something called quality experience. Each one of these is unique. It has a unique signature, and it's used to answer a specific kind of question, and also it affects our conclusions. You can't make the same conclusions from each of these studies, and so it depends what your conclusions are that you want to draw from this?

That can help choose the method some variables might be. You might be able to manipulate and others. You might not be open some because it's impossible to manipulate to others at a unethical and manipulate. So in those cases, you would have to choose something different. I'm going to talk about each of these.

Then you can verify that by knowing and checking what they write about and then you can also see what they conclude and you might think every scientist gets it, right? I can't tell you how many conclusions I've read in the discussion sections that are not fitting with the method that's chosen, right?

Uh, and so, you have to challenge. You have to be thinking critically about this stuff. Hang a question mark on everything.

And then, once you do the study, you want a generalize that. So, let me go through. A non-experiment, so a non-experimental study? Is a study that involves examining the relation between two or more naturally occurring variables. I think there's an association between watching violence on television and acting aggressively.

And let's say we're interested in this in terms of ours preschoolers. Critical, so I think there's going to be an association, so we're looking for two or more variables in a naturally occurring. Seven. So, what would those variables be? What are the two variables? I think there's a relationship between watching violence on television and acting aggressively.

Yeah. Sure, it's kind of sometimes. If it's a non-experiment, you don't use the term independent variable. Sometimes we do. It's more like a predictor variable. Um, but, uh, that that's sort of the conceptual label of those. But what are the two variables? Uh, watching violence on television and aggression.

So those are two variables, right? And we're trying to find an association between those. Okay, so what we need to do is obtain a random sample from the population, so if we think this is going to happen in preschoolers. Maybe we go into our neighborhood and we find out where all these preschools are, and we reach out to preschool.

We got reach out to the preschools and find out if. Hard to have graduate students and faculty from York University go in and assess the preschoolers in terms of how much violence they watch on television and then a measure of their aggression.

Uh, we need to obtain a measure on each of these things that we think are related. Ah, okay, so now, tell me something, um.

Okay, and then we we obtain the measures on these two sets. We do a statistical test of the relationship and then based on what we find there. We draw conclusions. That's the general process of a non-experimental. Uh, and then whenever we find if we have a random sample, then we can generalize back to the population.

But let's say we think this happens all over the world, and I just go and get a sample. Four-Year-Olds at various day cares in the North York area. I'd have to be careful, right? Are they all? Are they representing the larger populations. You'd have to be careful whether you could generalize back to even other preschoolers in Toronto or what have?

Okay, so um, what's the signature of a non-experiment? Each one of these has a signature we have to have two variables. And these variables have to be observable and measurable. What do I mean by observable? Yep, you need a way to like for aggression or something, or in terms of watching my own television.

You need to know, like, what camps divide on television? How much are they watching, and that impression is what counts? Integrations I have to have an operational definition, which is a way of. Seeing your conceptual theoretical variable, but in terms of observing them, what do I mean? By that, do I have to see it?

By observing, is that what I mean by that? Yeah, we have to get some sort of whistle, right? If you're able to measure like blood pressure. Things like that you're able to see the blood pressure at the moment we're able to get them. Yeah, okay, there's that, but I it it in some ways you do have to see it, or you have to feel it, or you have to sense it.

So, what I'm talking about by observable, you've heard of empirical research? That's essentially what it is empirical. Is that you've sensed it in some way? I feel it. I can see it. I can taste it, whatever. But you can sense it in some way, right? And then it has to be measurable.

By that, I mean, you have to be able to count it up and have more of it or less of it.

And then that's two variables in a natural settings, and you can observe the variable and count it up. Then you have the signature for a non-experiment.

One of the workhorses. For psychology is something called a verbal measure, a self-reported verbal measure. Sometimes you're measuring Behavior. Sometimes we're measuring just people self-reporting on a questionnaire, what they think fail, and do in certain situations. And we use this thing called a records. Yeah, sometimes you may have heard it called a nicot scale.

It's not the guy's name that's rents as liquor. With the liquor scale. We have two items that reflect one issue. With a liquid scale, we usually have two items that represent one issue, and these items are weighted equally. One, either one item's not more important than the other item.

They're weighted people, and one of them reflects a favorable view of that issue. The other one reflects a negative view of that issue. Okay, this is the liquor Escape. And let me show you, and now we measure the degree of it. So, let's say we're interested in birth control?

Whether it's a a valuable thing, a healthy thing or not, a healthy thing? Okay, so the first item we come up with is birth. Control should be absolutely prohibited. Is that an item reflecting the favorable side or the unfavorable side? Okay, unfavorable side, right? In terms of General, right?

But in terms of your view, yeah, right? If you don't believe in it, you might think this is the favorable view of that. I get the point you're trying to make, but basically this is sort of like the negative, unfavorable idea. Versus. Birth control is a legitimate Health major.

Now, if you think that birth control is a great idea? What? How would you respond on those two items? You would say strongly disagree to the first one or somewhat disagree, and then the reverse for the second question. Okay, so you're saying if you believe in this birth control, you're saying people are probably going to respond one or two in the first item four or five on the next item, right?

That would reflect that if you disagree with it. You get like a reverse pattern from that right, you get four or five on the first one, one, two, and so in some ways, it's like a reliability check or a lie detector, almost on that. What happens if they say Circle three and three?

Acquisition girl, but they're just kind of just always sitting in the middle as well. Oh yeah, uh, possibly, it could be. Did you see their understands, and they don't have it. Sure, I mean, maybe I've never thought about this. Good question, is it a good thing or not. A good thing, you know, I'm never even thought about it before, so it could be that it could be something I've thought deeply about, but I'm not clear.

Sides of the story here. Right, and so that could reflect that kind of a situation. Um, how about if I score one on the first and one on the second? Maybe because, well, the first statement is pretty like stream, so perhaps they don't think it should be prohibited and they, but they don't.

They necessarily believe it's a legitimate Health? Okay, so you're sort of picking up on the 3-3 thing and saying, they're a little confused. It's not really clear it could be that I suck at writing items. Social scientist, and I don't get it right. And it's confusing, like, that's a possibility.

It could be that the person is not clear themselves on that. It could also be five, five, or four. Four, three, three is difficult because it's like a neutral right in those situations, but when it's five, five or four, four or one one and two two, then we can start thinking that it could be lots of different things.

They're not really clear. You haven't done a good job of reflecting the issues in your item. What else? Yeah. Great!

Turns out when you're doing research. There's some people participants that want to be good participants. And some, not so much. There's some that say, what does this guy want? I want to help him desperately to confirm his hypotheses, and so they'll try and do their best. There's others they go.

I know exactly what this guy a wants, and I am gonna give him the complete opposite of that. In fact, I'm going to just respond randomly. Two, three, five, you know, whatever, just all over the map. You can't make sense of anything in there. In fact, in the old days, most of these questionnaires now are on electronic format, right?

But in the old days, it was paper and pencil, and you would have a piece of paper with all of these items on the left side of the page, and all of these scales on the right side of the page, and they some people would go two, two, two, two all the way down.

In fact, some people were so lazy they were just right in the lips around all of the two. They were giving individually circle them.

Issue is where they confuse, where they just the acting in some way, and so you need to just pick that up, put it in the garbage can and file it because you can't figure out what it is. In terms of the quality of that data, so you, but anyhow, the great thing about this is, it gives us a reliability to check.

This is really the Workhorse of a lot of social psychology survey research and using verbal measures very valuable. How we collect the data? Uh, let's go say we go into a daycare. How do we get a four-year-old and say to them? How much you buying television? Do you watch you know?

How do we do that? Yeah, well, you may not necessarily ask the kid. You may ask their parent because they're probably the one who's monitoring. I guarantee you, you'll be asking your parent because there's this thing called the law. Oh, you don't want to be in violation of that, or you complete your PhD from a cell somewhere, um.

Get parents irate about those kinds of situations. Are you asking my kid about because a kid doesn't know probably right, but the parent will possibly be able to report how many episodes of Power Rangers does my kid watch, and there's lots of different ways of operation. I think it could be how much they watch 30 minutes a day or how many episodes they've watched.

You have to be careful how you operationalize them now. As a parent, I often.

Not sure how accurate I've been in reporting like to my friends. So, did your kid do this or do that? How much, how much television do they get to watch? Oh, no television at all. They don't have advices. They don't spend any time online kind of thing, uh, parenting is just great in our house.

Um, you might not want to fess up, right? So, they might not want to tell you how much they want, so you, there's ways of tapping into this. I think I mentioned with your previous question about social desirability or political correctness, but you might have to measure these other things when you're dealing with politically correct sensitive situations to tap into that and be able to partial those things out.

You wouldn't necessarily ask the parent to report on aggression. Uh, but you could and again sensitive there too, but you might have your graduate students stand around out in the. Park or wherever at the school and watch kids in the school ground and see how they complete. And you would have operationalizations of aggression.

How many names a kid gets called? How many times the kid gets pushed down excluded from social situations, these have all be valid forms of aggression. Now, you have to be careful, right? Because it turns out when kids are small, and they like somebody they might push them down.

It's just their way of telling a man. I like, you, you know, and, and they push him down, so you have to be careful that they interpret it in the way that you're interpreting it there, too. So it's a little bit more complex than all of these things, but you have to figure out what the operational definition is, if it's valid, it represents that, and it's reliable.

It does that consistently in those situations, so you would do that, and then you would test for different kinds of relationships. Now, tell me something. Let's just think I'm on the x-axis. That's sorry. The y-axis, the vertical x.

They represent washing violence on television. Okay, so we have two axes, the X, the vert of the horizontal one that's watching violence on television. This, when here, is aggression. Can someone tell me what that? Okay, so this line here represents the pattern of response. You would never get a whole bunch of data points from 100 kids on a straight line like that.

It's called the line of best fit, and there's in fact, if you were to look at that in terms of responses, it would be a scatter of dots. Um, but often those dots sort of congregate around a line, and this is called the line of effort, so it represents.

Pattern, how tightly packed it is. All sorts of different things, but you're saying that represents. A finding, where the more violent television you watch.

The. Aggression. That makes sense. The more violent television I watch. I looked about mine and I go there. Last aggression. Would have that been your prediction.

A positive correlation, more violent television. More regression. People banding around Freud's name earlier on when we were talking about the history. Uh, anybody know one of the things he's famous for?

Uh, in from this point, um, this thing called catharsis. Which is release of something through some other means. He would argue that if you go watch violent television, you don't need to go push that kid down in the schoolyard. You exercise that there, and you can have the release and the experience by watching it in that situation, so that would support if that was your theory that the response is going to be cathartic.

By watching this stuff. I'm going to have less of it rather than more of it, so that could represent that. So you might have had a prediction and expectation. You look at that and go man. I'm wrong again, kind of, uh, and so you're. Theorizing wasn't very clear on that.

You can find that, um.

How about this one? So, this represents a negative correlation, right. A negative correlation says, the more of one thing the less of another correlations can range. A perfect negative correlation is minus one and a perfect positive correlation is, plus one okay, and it can take on any value in between there.

Your correlational work, thinking, if it's a negative correlation, it means a bad thing. If it's a positive correlation, it's a good thing that would be incorrect. You want to look at the strength and Direction. What's more important is how strong of a negative relationship is it how strong of a positive relationship is?

This one represents a positive relationship. Okay, more of one more of the other.

What is the last one time? There's no predictability between it's your variable. Okay, he's saying, regardless of a change in. Watching violence on television. There's no change on aggression. No association right now. I could have drawn that vertically as well and said, regardless of how much aggression there is, there's no violent television being watched or no change in that at all.

Um, so that could represent a no relationship. And again, you never see these perfect kinds of relationships. These are just there to represent the direction and strength of these kinds of relationship. Okay, but you don't, uh. So, what can you conclude from this? What? What can a non-experimental study tell us?

Okay, so it can tell us whether there is a relationship or not, and it can tell us this the strength of the relationship, the valence of it, whether it's positive or negative. Well, I was going to say like the direction of it, the direction of it, yeah, um. What else can it tell us?

Yep, if variables are non-causal. Okay, yeah, it can tell us. So, what's the, what's one of the criticisms you heard of correlation and non-experimental research. Okay control for everything, so you tell me it's impact. These things are related, and maybe they predict each other, but you can't prove it, right?

You're you're off. One of the criticisms is that if you want to make a causal conclusion, you can't do that and and what I was taught when I was coming up was, um, basically non-experimental research or correlation or research says nothing about cause Asia, and I take issue with that.

It says a lot about causation. It doesn't say nothing about causation. It tells us something, but it doesn't definitively tell us about causation. So, in terms of strengths and we in this, it tells us whether two variables are related. That's important. That's what we want to know, right? Is there any association between these?

You run a daycare. And the parents are permissive and allow a lot of violent television to be watching. You know that violence violent television leads to aggression? Are you going to admit that kin to your daycare again? Remember, lawyers liability all of these kinds of interviews. If some kid hurts another kid, and so, um, it helps us to.

Predict some phenomenon from it. Now, one thing that I think is great is it can tell us. Uh, it can't necessarily say that this thing here definitively causes this thing here. But if you find no relationship that vertical or horizontal line. It can tell you these things are not commonly related if you find a zero correlation.

It tells you these things are not common, so it tells you something about causation. It's really important.

Now, what are the reasons for these non-causal relationships Direction? We don't know whether a kid's aggressive or the parents are maybe aggressive, and they allow them to watch more of this television. We also don't know if kids you know are just watching it, and it causes mortgage. So there's this direction issue in terms of.

Also, we talked about this. There are variable costs. Imagine that there's a beauty priority to know, right? Physical abuse, verbal abuse, whatever a home that has that might be more likely to be accepting of watching violence on television and aggression, so you would see those kinds of things. Situation sometimes.

Okay, uh? So, in order to be able to argue that one variable causes another. We need to be able to run an experiment okay, and so I just really quickly want to. Play the foundation.

Might just screwed this up again. Okay, and yeah, I'll I can do this without, um. 10 minutes, okay? An experiment. Now, what's an experiment? What's the most basic experiment? Essentially, I want to be able to say this thing here causes this thing here. How can I demonstrate that in an experiment just describe to me the most basic experiment?

Okay, it's a manipulation of invariable, just like, uh, a non-experiment had a signature. You had to be able to observe it and measure it. The experiment also has a signature heart of it is manipulation, but there's other aspects control group. Yeah, but that's not necessarily the feature of it.

It is, it is important. I don't know why it's not considered a signature, but it's because it's not. There's not always a control group. No, and it's not a controlled group where, like, the theoretically defined control. Yeah, their comparisons, they can. Yeah, they're controlling your independence and then measuring your dependent.

And then, I'm guessing all their part is that your samples are accurate, okay, um, okay, so?

Changing that? Most basic form. An experiment has two groups. One of those groups is the treatment group that group gets. Whatever it is, you're interested in watching violence on television, watching Power Rangers, or doing something like that. Um, so they get that. The control group is your comparison group, and they get everything that the con that the treatment group gets, except the treatment.

If they're watching if it's kids and they're watching violence on television, you're controlled, who has to watch something on television that doesn't have violence. What would be a thing of beauty is if you could get the people who produce Power Rangers to do two of the same episodes, but one has violence, and the other one doesn't have violence again.

Immediate resources, those kinds of experiments. So, if you do that experiment, uh, and you manipulate watching violence on television and watching Barney or something like that, and we find out that those kids who watch violent television for sure act more aggressively than those who don't.

Watching violence on television, because that's the only thing that varies. Right, that's the logic of an experiment. The experiment has a controlled group and a treatment group, and they are absolutely identical to each other, except for that one thing, the treatment, and so if there's a change on aggression, it has to be because of that thing, because it's the only thing that varies.

Isolating, reducing one of the criticisms we'll get into. This is that experiments don't reflect the real world, and I say thank you when you come to that, that's exactly shouldn't reflect it real. Well, the real world is noisy, messy. All of those things, and I'm trying to reduce something down to its basic element to show you that that thing there causes that.

The only way to do that is to strip it down. Didn't reflect in real world. Once you find that out, then you can add layers of life onto it, and I'll spend some time talking about that. I know that was an intent, like your day. Sorry for that. So that?

You also like are accounting for parenting styles at home. Situations are like that many can measure within one person. Yeah, trying to do it, but you can, but there's issues associated with repeated measures designed too, and learning and all sorts of things that don't necessarily threaten a causal conclusion.

It's, it's another element in there, but it's challenging, too. There are shortfalls of that, too. Um, and those are called quasi experience, and I'll talk about those next. I still haven't finished this off. I want to talk to you more about this, but I think, is that right?

Well, somebody asked about the bonus points, uh, bonus points I control here. Don't go do a steady like, um, or something like that they are run out of here. I will imagine that I will tell you when they're available and don't be looking tired. Okay.

Hello, I wasn't it.