Bob should be about teaching 40, should you know research, and 20 should be about administration. So that's partly what I do here as well. I also consider myself an academic. Anybody? What's an academic? Probably heard it before. Okay, yeah, partly. You might publish academic work. Yeah, yeah, that's an important part of that as well.

That, uh? Um, that yeah, you basically are learning, which even after you form are formally trained, your your learning as well. But in terms of being an academic. How I see that is somebody who's actively engaged in the generation and dissemination of knowledge, those two things that basically I do.

That's what we do here. We create knowledge through our research and in that knowledge, we try to impart during the courses we teach. So that's essentially what I'm. What are you guys doing here? Who said that to learn okay? I don't really be surprised how freaking I get that answer to why people are here.

Okay, she wants to learn something that's important. There's different Realms of psychology, right? And this is one of the, I think it's the most important, um. The reason the objective reasons will go over that, but what else are you trying? Um, next semester. Yeah, yeah, so you're you're trying to learn something, but this could be a stepping stone to something else, right?

And what's that all for? Psychology, intimate relationships, okay? Yeah, okay, and. Okay, minor psychology, and just there's some loftier goal. Um, um. Psychology relates to a lot of the foundation of a lawyer about Avery, even what you'll study at law school. Um, so you have higher order goals that you're trying to pursue very well.

Um, what are the reasons?

My friend took this course last year, and she told me that I will learn stuff that I can actually apply in my real life. Yeah, sure. Which hopefully you can in a lot of psychology courses. But this one in particular, I would argue, is very relevant how you. Was it close to the parking lot?

Did you park don't have to walk too far?

What if I said that the real reason you guys are here? Is? Reproduce. Stay safe! And survive. What? Any takers on that? What if the real reason you're here? Is, it gives you an edge in terms of reproducing. Surviving, staying safe, become doctor.

Believers disbelievers. And we want to dispute that.

I think that that's a very, uh, maybe. Like, every regionary way of thinking or an instinctual way of thinking? Uh, it's probably like true. Like most things they have, like come true, they made some other stuff, but I think that we're also more than different instincts and more than evolution of data to be.

Um, and I think, yeah, like, it's true in some aspects, but I think, like, oh, it was also more than different things. Okay, just setting everything outside, sure. So, you didn't sort of get up this morning and go. September 3rd good day to get up and get my jeans promoted 2120 social psychology and make that happen.

You thought it was for some other reason that I'll get some meaning in life or some entertainment. Ah, hello, um, yeah. I believe in what you said. The reason is, uh, we all know that human beings are social creatures, and the more we know about how society and social relation work, the better.

We can manage our Social Circle, and I kind of believe that in this generation, the new one because of social media. Our social life is not as good as it should be sure, and the more we can learn. The more we can apply to life, the more we can understand other people right and the less judgmental we will be yeah, you know, our life as we know it has changed over our history, right?

And it will change again for the future and certainly social media AI. All sorts of things is certainly. Affecting and will affect it more in the future. So that's important so, but tell me something the fact that you didn't get out this morning and say that suggests that? This is if you're not thinking about it.

It's going on below your level of awareness, and that. Could it be that these are your goals, and you're not thinking about them? Yeah, I think people are getting used to go if they're not aware of all the time, but I also think if it was more complicated in those goals, and they also can act confidently towards usually value these rules because he's a problem, sure.

Yeah, there's a lot of nuance. I'm pretty sure. Um, and when you put together all of the intra personal interpersonal environmental factors, you get a pretty good. Array of variables that can affect things, right? So, that's the case, but just because you're not thinking about it because you're not aware of them.

I mean, I'm sure, mostly didn't get up this morning and say, I better get in there and get my jeans promoted, but that suggests that it's happening below your level of awareness. And could we really be pursuing these goals below? Our level of awareness. Are you not somewhat aware of it, if by achieving like an academic degree or diploma, you're there for increasing like your worth as a partner, sure.

So, in going to class, you're increasing your worth as a partner, and that does directly like influence, like, sure how easy it is right, and you might be surprised like that. I, I agree with you 100, but there's lots of people who pursue these things, and they're not thinking about that.

I mean, does everybody want a Reaper this? And that's changing, right? Uh, to some extent. Seems like there's people that study that. And does that challenge these Notions of evolution? Um, that we have probably what we're about? Reproduction, reproduction, reproduction, which they see as something called Fitness. Um, does that challenge that those theoretical ideas?

If that's the case, I'll talk more about that and. None of our theories are one to one. Right. This thing here predicts this thing here. Do you never get the perfect? 100 correlation. Between. The only things that correlate 100 is this beer and bulk wave itself. Otherwise, there's injuries of a new.

Ready. Um, let's get all of that. And so, there's going to be individuals who don't aspire to those things people who risk their safety and their security in their lives. You take their lives. Right? If that's what I want to be forwards? Um, and so there are lots of challenges.

Does that mean that the area is not valid as there are exceptions to that, and those are the kinds of things we will talk a little about as well, but there is a lot going on below our level of awareness. You don't have to think every time your heart beats every time.

Uh, it's going on automatically to give you life, and it's conceivable that there is this drone survive. Stay safe and produce gets played out over and over again. It underlies a lot of things, um, that we did okay, um. So, if I'm making a board between my God that?

That you're here to do these things. Then, um, what is the best way to do that? What is, what is the best way to make that happen? If, if we're about reproduction, if we're about safety, if we're about, um, survival. What is the best game to make that?

Yeah, um, okay, by watching. So, for sure, that's. That's one way to do it.

When you become more people from create relationships, okay, can you guys hear that sound? It feels like the room's going to take off, um. Yeah, let me just see if. Okay, I'm gonna put a sword in here.

Okay, so we can watch. Uh, watch other people. Learn from from that. What up? Ourselves. We can experiment ourselves, sure. Learn from our own experimentation. But what's the best way to? Reproduce. Survive. And stay safe. Um, by socializing, like, like, you go back to essentially the century into animals, you know, they stay in Pakistan groups that adds, you know, protection.

By having people around, we need to help other people traveling their physical prevention, but also, you know, mentally. Human beings are social creatures, so we want to, you know. Talk to other people you know. Give that serotonins from being with our friends, our loved ones, our families, sure. So that also ties into, like, creating relationships, reducing as well.

Yep, how long does a baby survive an infant without its mouth? Anybody know the answer? Got a question? Well, I'm glad you you're speculating, I hope. Some of us don't know that. I'm glad to hear that that you don't know that the answer probably is not wrong. Right from the get-go, you need to force relatively stable.

Satisfactory relationships or social bonds. A handful of other people who gaining context of mutual concerns for each other's well-being or this thing doesn't happen. The best game in town. It is to be social, but that it's more about forming social bonds or relationships. And that's how we make that happen.

Um. So, if these are pretty bold planes, I'm just saying they get they're resonating with some of you. But if they're true, if if we do need to form these bonds and we do form these bonds. Um, and they lead to reproduction, survival safety. What evidence would you look to to support that?

What evidence would you like? What would you expect to see out in the world if there's something to this so that the more that my prayers survive the bigger to call them the end succeeded. Okay, so she's into looking at ants, and that's good because their social beings too, right?

Uh, probably some people are going to dispute. I'm telling you that a human being is related to an end in some way, and we don't need to get into that. But um, we could look to other things like that, but what evidence would you look for to, um? Her, and then I'm going to come back.

Yeah, so I'm gonna give an example in humans. Uh, we studied that people are in groups of religion, they have religion groups that are supporting them. They tend to live longer. They tend to, uh, deal better with problems and circumstances, and they tend to have more babies. Okay, so that should, okay, so?

Uh, uh, you can do it through the lens of religion, but that's a group. Yeah, essentially, right? And we'll talk about, uh, you know, I know, informally, you know what a group is, but it turns out of a social psychologist has a very specific definition of what that means, and when you're in them, you would expect to see more reproduction.

You would expect to see some of these other things more safety of new parents. They are people who are offering to like, help you with dealing with the baby sure. Yeah, yeah. And we can, you know, talk about these things and lose terms, but I would look to see evidence.

To support these wild claims that I'm making right, and what evidence would we look to technological advancement functional advancement? Once those needs are like. Once the needs of safety, security, and interception on that so we can start with Americans so exciting that, yeah, sure, um. So right, there may be certain things that need to be satisfied needs.

Famous guys, something called a hierarchy of needs, and that's. Uh, evolved itself because the order that he suggested isn't necessarily, but indeed, you have wings. And some of those needs need to be satisfied in order to move on to another. Yep. Another. Um, has clearly degraded. They were off in the pressure anxiety, social anxiety, and they were unable to like, go out and meet people.

And now, okay. Hey, who's teaching this course make me not understanding? Yeah, no, that's great. And most people, um? Most people don't, actually. I like. Uh, way of looking at that. We're looking for positive things to support this right, and you're coming out and saying, well, if I'm in a relationship.

I would expect to see this, this, and this, but very few say if I'm not in a relationship, what would I expect to see and you're right, that if being in a relationship is supposed to lead to improve well-being longevity? Procreation. All of these kinds of things, then when we're not in those relationships, you would expect to find the exact opposite of that, right?

Yep. You can also see, like, coming from a different discipline, perhaps, um, like in my criminology. Where's the new talk about things like social boundaries where we can see how when people have weak into their salons and parental like friends, consequently back to complete them making. I'm not sitting down the line sure, perhaps not exactly related to.

Like, it's, it's not just about bonding clearly. It's about who you're bonding with sometimes, right? Because some people can, if we support other people, it could be supporting what, right? Um, and so, yeah, there's. But, but still, the general nature of that. These are universals that we see, so let's just look at some of the evidence that might support this.

Turns out. That when we are in relationships, we are happy. Uh, and when we're not now, somebody I know reminds me, it's probably not as computer in that relationship. And just because we should bond with other people, and do doesn't necessarily mean that we should bond with everybody, uh, becoming contact with.

But yes, so we find the empirical evidence shows that when people are in a relationship, they're happy. Um. Okay, we cope better with the. Um, stresses that life present to us one of the if anybody here is interested in stress and coping or Works in the area, stress, and coping.

It's a little scary. I did some of this work when I was doing my PhD. Now, if you go to do a listage, you didn't come up with six parts. But one of the findings that clearly is. Showing over and over again. That's the power of social support. It's perhaps one of the most functional forms of dealing with challenges in their life.

I saw their hands up here and okay, so, uh, when we're in relationships, we cope better. Um, married couples have less heart disease and. Um, there's evidence to support data again backing up this claim that we have. And the point that you mention, which is what happens when you get rejected?

And um? Interestingly, one of the things that happened is we experience social pain when we're rejected, and social pain is equivalent to physical pain. In fact, it's kind of ripped off the physical painting system, which is there first to help us survive. Um, and the idea behind this is that if relationships are so darn important, if you're not in them, you will feel pain.

Just like, if you put your hand on a hot element on the stove, you feel pain like, take your hand away. Or you might not survive, right? The idea here, being that if somebody rejects you or you reject somebody else, social pain is felt, and it's essentially indistinguishable food, too.

I don't know if anybody who cares have this experience or heard from people, but lots of people when they're the victims of some kind of breakup. One of your First Responses, which is exactly what happens when you're in severe physical cancer. Um, even our language. We talked about a broken heart, right?

There's all sorts of, um. Physical things that are related to that the message. Bond stay bondage. Don't treat this lightly. Um, so I hand up over here. Yeah, I was gonna say, um. Oh crap! Oh my goodness, what was I gonna say? Yeah, I totally lost my shirt. Okay, I'm so sorry, maybe it'll come back, um?

What about behavior? Um, what would we expect to find there, um? So if people, if if relationships are all so important, we would expect you to be able to to form them pretty easily. And we know this. In fact, this there's an amazing tool, two tools that I use in my lab from time to time to form a relationship, and one of those is the fast friends exercise.

So I bring two strangers into the lab. I need them to create a diet or a group or some kind of a team really quickly, and I can do that in about five minutes, and there's a list of questions that I can give you to ask somebody else, and the same day as you, your book.

Books you're interested in movies, those kinds of things, and in a relatively short period of time. The thoughts, friends, exercise, um, you can form a bond, but it's easier than that. I can simply say you're in group a you're in group b, you're in group a you're in group B, you're in group hey to be able Bond.

Like that, um, and the and the bees will bond like that. It's that simple, and that easy. And so, that's what you would expect in those situations, and that's what we'll find that human beings can afford bonds pretty easily. Um, turns out nine out of 10 people worldwide pursue marriage.

Uh, that would be reviewing that for the first time, uh, and being struck by that. You know, we know lots of people married a lot of people magic relations, but it was really struck by how many people in that session? Um, think about how we celebrate, uh, relationships, um?

Right? When we're if people are signing a wedding and there's an engagement party or a wedding celebration? Uh, babies are born meeting somebody for the first time we celebrated. Um, and that sort of speaks to the importance. Yeah, I've had a question about everyone's listening marriage so much. Why is marriage at like the highest divorce?

Yeah, interesting, um? Yeah, it's. It's a really good question to ask, and there's lots of. Uh, reasons for that is a different world now than being a bald world. I, but when I think about the things that I'm going to talk about in this course and what we're talking about.

Now, the best way to think about them is. How human beings were living when we were living in small groups out on the hill. You might think well was that relevant to today, but evolution is slow. It's about change, but it's slow, and life is moving really right. And so, Evolution can't compete with that, um.

But I, whenever I'm thinking about problems that are rooted in these ideas, I always think of myself being out there in planes, right, and my small with my family and other families. And you know, laying at how important now would be, but there's all sorts of nuance. Right now, um?

But that would account for that. Why? It's like 50 success rate. We probably still agreed yet. Uh, one of the things is that a lot of marriages end, uh, in the war. But there's a lot of couplings that are not recorded in a formal marriage, right? So there's still a lot of people doing that for gravitation.

Um, all right, so we celebrate them going back to yep. Let me talk about the context of marriage and like forming relationships. But how do we evaluate the quality, or how do we evaluate a triggering relationship? Like, what happened? Yeah. Human read. Relationship with, maybe not all relationships are beneficials.

Yeah, absolutely. We'll talk about that just again because we can bond doesn't mean we should and think about the Myriad of relationships that are out there, from romantic relationships to parent-child relationships to sibling relationships to friendships to co-worker relationships. There's all sorts of different kinds of relationships, and you raise an important question.

How do we tap into the quality of those things. Well, social psychologists and there's even a finer group of scientists called relationship. Scientists who study those very questions they don't want to use you to believe that this is a course in relationships. It's it's part of the idea where they're talking about, but one of my colleagues creating to be a relationship scientist and her supervisor in the world renowned.

Relationship scientists, and so that course is better suited to studying relationships specifically. But yes, but we have ways of measuring the quality, and in terms of satisfaction, the commitment and relationship quality. There are measures to tap into those things. Um, so there are ways like, like a psychologist, would measure anything.

Um, but yeah, you're right. There's degrees of that. There's not, um, uniform. There's variability, and like I said before, just because we have this. Capacity for bonding doesn't mean we should bond. Always or bond with everything right. We have to find the fit that works. Um, okay, uh? How about when we're not in relationships picking up where you left off on your last comment if we're not in them?

I would expect. Things to happen, right? So, think about loss of relationship through separation, divorce, and data, and the more it approaches that we go through in those situations. So, we see again evidence that supports beauty is so bad, uh, think about the billions of dollars in the Cosmetic industry physical fitnesses diet industry.

Clothing industry to attract other people literally think about whether our economy is based on, which is potentially that now, right? And so, we spend just literally thousands and thousands of dollars a week. Um, and something I like to. Uh, pointed out at the end. If you're still skeptical about the value of social bonds and the evidence that shows that they're important, how many Hermits do you guys know?

Anybody here Noah Hermit, you know, a Hermit? Yeah, I haven't heard from her in, like, probably, over a year. Okay, but does that person have relationships with other people, like, maybe one. Yeah, I don't think that it's like a very fulfilling day-to-day experience, so somebody who has maybe minimal, like, is there anybody else who thinks they know I'm not trying to challenge you so much, but you think you know what I remember?

Yeah. She's off the grid now. Uh, she's definitely going through psychosis episode. Uh, so she's now, uh, overstated music in general for over a year reported. Yeah, but she's hiding from the boss. That's why she's a hermit. Yeah, so these are some pretty unique cases that we're talking about.

The thing is, it's rare, and I would challenge anybody think about people that you might think of. They might be shutting, or they've isolated themselves or they're running from the law or all sorts of things like that. But essentially, they probably didn't get to where they are like being a hermit and having zero relationships with other people.

Somebody brings food, somebody makes meals. Somebody provides these resources, um, and so I challenge whether you really know anyone who is a Hermes, and even if you can come up with an example or two, it's rare. Yeah, so. Would you? Would it be a bold argument to say that there's no such thing as a Hermit?

Point like, you know, why do we form social bonds like to? To, what end? Is it like, is it form a bond right away with its mother, right? And, well, that's like, you know, even includes the idea of there being somebody's a Hermit, but I'm even open to the fact that somebody's transitioning now into a non-social life, you know, and not for, uh, legal reasons, uh, kind of thing, right?

I've even opened it up, but I would challenge that you even know a person like that, that they exist. So I guess, yeah, right? But remember, and what we're talking about here is, um, there could be circumstances, right? The world changes pandemics happen, and we have to isolate and hand those things.

But that's not our nature, right? And this is definitely the book that drone of evolutionary. For sure. For sure. Who isolate and do all those things? Course, they're rare. Do they challenge a theory again? The numbers are, so we're going to get into these things, right? We're going to talk about things, like, uh, if it's all about this, how about same-sex relationships I think?

Does that all work out? Um, and all sorts of other things like that, right? And there's good. There are variations for that, and they're part of the diversity. I guess another thought I have that for people high intelligence, they seem to be less socially inclined, and so you look like really smart people, like even Isaac Newton, who was like purposely excluded himself from people, and is that because of high intelligence community or less interested in social media, sure, or that he just had Ambitions to and people sort of, you know, he had Ambitions to think about loftier things and people, and you want to spend all this time doing that.

I mean, I don't know, and I don't even know that evidence. I've never even heard that, but I could could believe it. But again, these things that we're pulling up are rare things. Um, and so you don't ever want to use the exceptions. The challenge for supportive fear? It's just okay.

It's kind of proof of concept or not baby, but it's really not a challenge that, cuz we never get 100% blind-to-one relationship. When you think about the Myriad of factors that come into play that interact at any one time that we can make any prediction that all is really remarkable.

Ah, yeah, I know you had your sorry, yeah, sure now, now and then. Now, we're talking about what those health issues. Right, and again, uh, are these things functional or not? So there's Nuance that happens in all of these things, right? So we can use these things to challenge, but just because somebody's biochemistry is not?

Um, what everybody else experiences doesn't necessarily challenge that theory as well, because there's all sorts of nuance because of those kind of things personalities. Um, lots of different things, so these are good good challenges. You guys are coming up with, but? Um, when you look at the thoroscope mostly happens, all going in this direction, right?

And there's pretty good evidence to support that. But there's a nuance along the way. Also, uh, depends on what you're doing so. It kind of depends on what you mean by a German. Yeah, yeah. Like, with technology, there's access to social connections for sure, exactly. So, we can just social psychology have to be face to face.

Does bonding relationships have to be face to face? Uh, and that's a really good question. When technology was starting to come, this technology is starting to come around. Lots of social psychologists asks themselves. That is what we study related to that idea. Now, it just seems silly. You didn't challenge that idea that so many people have relationships online, right, and Charlie out.

They're able to form, develop, and maintain their relationships without physical contact and face to face contacts, and then there's AIS where regular forming bonds. But AI, which doesn't really think for sure. Yeah, yeah. And, and then robotics now, too, where people be able to farm relationships with robots. Do you know that one Tesco is the AVS, where someone programmed the computer to ask us based on?

Uh, based on someone's inputs, and then people would say, just please. Please leave me alone on the computer, but it was like, not sensing it at all. Oh yeah, yeah, so anyhow, but these are good challenges, and and it's what it's done really is. Just opened up the floodgates in terms of.

Wow, what are this? And what about that? And so, it's an exciting time to be a social psychologist and be thinking about these communications. There's a button on topic. Okay to turn off and create an automatic report that's problems making it doesn't. No, it's the what it is is the pressure of the circulation system.

Is not against, but let's see how that all goes. Um, incidentally, I will typically go to our two and a half hours, two hours and 15 minutes with a break. But today, we're not going to do that. I mean, trying to get you out of here as soon as possible.

What is happening? We're definitely going to be like an hour an hour and 15 minutes. Something like that, yeah? The first part of the question about this because?

It's an imperfect world. We live in, isn't it?

Something like, someone's screaming. Sorry, I like your story. Oh, really. But yeah, I mean, sure, I get your point. But again, my point here being these things are, these challenges are in. Do they exist? Of course. Maybe people like that? How do you define what's your operational definition of a Hermit?

Is it the equivalent of a shut-in. There's all sorts of things, but I mean, essentially, we need other people to make this dream happen. Um, and without forming these bonds, it become, um, we have technology that allows us to procreate out of another human being in some ways. Pathways still need DNA?

Right, and you, so they're yeah. How?

Sorry, sorry. No, it's not a problem. How about months, right? So, uh, you're suggesting that they don't want to have kids. They might not want to be in relationships. Is that what you're suggesting? Um, sure, and uh, and. But who knows, right? Do they just because you're living a life like that and possibly in celibacy doesn't mean you don't have desire?

Uh, that you're not controlling that right, and so, and there, again, it's not ones we want, uh, we are looking for universals. But not everyone, right? Because that's, you know, that would be too challenging for situations. But how many months are there in the world first?

Again, I don't know what they're doing and how they're. But it's, it's consumable, but again, the numbers are moving in natural relative to the seven and a half billion. Other people around the planet, right you, you, and then you went on. Yeah, I'm pretty sure it's so incredible people because.

And by doing things with them, so I do think they pulled in their urges or some of them can take like the valley because I don't think yeah. And again, these are really exceptional cases, right? Um, so that would be that my, that would be the evolutionary social psychologist response.

And there's lots of ways it took a lot of your point. I was thinking, there's also non social cues that you give to maintain relationships. Verbally communicate. That take a vow to not speak like in a community or even not, I know. Would my brother he's a high functioning autistic?

He cannot communicate, but I know in a situation if he is uncomfortable by the way he looks and acts, and I twitch lots of non-verbal. So, yeah. So, even though we can't communicate him, giving me a little to you, I feel that relationship where my other sister can't understand those things.

We I have colleagues, uh, one of my colleagues, um. Uh, and what you tend to when you're constructing people she's often dealing with stereotype race. Yes, hydrogens discrimination these kinds of things. And so, what do we see upon? We're looking at somebody else. There's also another guy's famous. His name is Ackman.

He has developed this coding system for detecting emotions of people's face, their musculature, their smile, and these kinds of things. So there's a lot that's communicated, and we just know this intuitively because of the time. There's a lot of ways of communicating lots of things. Think about again when we were living out on the Belt and you didn't have language.

Um. Uh, let's if any of it sounds like it's gonna be a lively class, you know, this kind of stuff, which I love. Um, you get a lot out of that, and hopefully you'll. I get the same out of that, but this will be sort of the exchange that.

Um, so with that in mind. If binding is all that important, which I hope people are along for the ride now than it is, what's one of the first things? You need to do? When you're forming a relationship, what's one of the first things we do? Ask them for their name.

Okay, that might be one of the things we do. A first impression. Okay, what's that? Well, basically the way you initially. Show yourself exactly what the other person to perceive you because that first impression kind of sets the tone, whether how that relationship goes in a sense, so it could come off.

Sure, you're very like most important impression, yes, but that person, that's kind of what they're going to take away, and that's all they know of you. So that's what they're going to think. Yeah, when we're meeting people informing relationships. One of the first things you want to do, maybe, is form an impression, and it's essentially a general idea about what someone is, like, right, the core things we have in common.

You might look for things that you have in common, but my mom told the opposite to try. Was she wrong? I don't think so. No, she was. And she's absolutely wrong. Yeah, um, everybody thinks, oh, you're different from you. You complete me. Well, it turns out those kinds of things end the divorce, right?

It's uh, offices don't necessarily be a trout. Yeah, it's exciting to figure it out. And then it's not exciting, just aggravating. And it doesn't lead to long-term relationships. But yeah, I think that's, uh, so if you're out there hunting, looking whatever, look for overlap, uh, my difference, um? And so, yeah, that that kind of thing, it could be important to discover those things.

I just wanted to have a small point that I think opposites do attract, but it has to be in terms of like interest can be different, and interests can be obviously, because then it enriches your life by experiencing, and you can complete each other. I guess there's, like, I say, there is exceptions, but the evidence seems to show the more overlap.

The more successful, I think it's most important to overlap in terms of moral value, sure right here. Yeah, and there's people who do work on those very issues, and so. That is important. Um, yeah, so we form Impressions. What's an impression? What are the things that are important in Impressions?

And one of the first things impression is general idea of what people are like, or like, um, is based on inferences. I know everybody's heard of that word. Can anyone tell us what it means?

Someone's wearing, like running shoes that may be like running, or maybe they're athletic. Um, so you're saying it's a conclusion that you might? How about somebody based on? Some information you make, or you kind of said some basalizing that you might assume about someone based on um or the way they hold themselves what they wear.

Okay, some other information about them, yeah. Um, anybody else want to contribute to that? What's the difference? I mean, like, if you like your offering for a social convention, so we'll go. They don't like me, and then you kind of close your impression when pulling sure. Or did you, you might think, uh, you might.

You might not say something like you based on, sure, right, for sure, um?

So, it's basically when you use whatever evidence.

Yeah, it's, uh, did you want to ask that? You want to say something out? Okay, let's come back. Yeah, so essentially, an inference is drawing a conclusion about somebody or something based on limited data. That's what we do with scientists. Right, I never know something fully. I get a sample, like, learn something about it, and from there, I draw conclusions from what I met the whole scientific process.

It's kind of rooted in that idea, but human beings do this as well, right? We have limited, uh? A person walks it in there, this color, or that color right away. I know them, and I know what, what, they're all about, right, or they're this side or that side or this culture of that culture, this religion, or that religion, you know what?

That's all about, right? Not, but the, I think you do. I think we draw infancy based on him and his name. Yeah.

Sure, right. So, that's part of the information. Gossip, right? Uh, limited information. So, all of that gets thrown in the hopping, and you learn from that and form that conclusion based on that. So that's one of the first things we do. Another thing we do is these inferences are based on stereotypes.

I know everybody's heard that term before anybody Define it for us. What's a stereotype?

Yep. Basically like when a trait or a narrative or something is a slide to generalize a certain group. Or, you know, certain people, sure. Yeah, when we use a characteristic, let's say. Of an individual and use it to sort of draw a conclusion about the whole group of people that that individual might belong to.

That's one of the things you do the way. I like to think of, and there's like, longer College definitions of all of these things, but the way I like to think about stereotypes is their biases and expectations. Right, more often than not stereotypes or biases. And the rooted in expectations we have alone.

Is there ever a colonel of Truth in The Stereotype could be, but largely they are wrong inaccurate? Right, and so, um, they become biased. And so, we have to be careful. Okay, so. That's one of the first things we do as Farm Impressions. How long we've been in here?

Okay, so an hour and a half, that's a pretty good amount of time. I'm sure you started following the impressions ago. Alrighty, um? And so, uh, let's check in on that. How many people here think they got me nailed? Oh, I know that guy. I know that. Uh, anybody, a couple of people.

Okay, good. Let me go through some questions, and then I want to get some assessment. From you guys. Now you can work. I'm going to ask for data. Okay, some answers to these questions, but I'm just going to list a bunch of questions about me. I want you to respond to them even in your new tablet notebook or whatever.

Um, and then I'm going to come back and do something. Okay, what kind of music do I like or listen? You don't say, I just keep it to yourself. I'm gonna come back. But, you know, don't spend too much time thinking about it. Write down your answer.

What are my favorite television shows? Anybody who watches television.

Um. Do I like sports?

Okay, this one you're going to be wanting to be very good. Okay, how old am I? Am I married?

What radio stations do I listen to? Hey, I've got Spotify too, but I'm talking about some radio stations.

Do I play a musical instrument?

Do I use a Mac or a PC?

Am I a vegetarian?

And last, but not least, am I an outdoorsy kind of person? So, I go back to that. How many people think? Okay, if this guy I sort of got probably 80? Few people 50.

Okay, what kind of music do I like? I'm gonna try and be as honest as I can with all of these with a couple of receptions.

I think both kinds of music century and Western, um. Yeah, I do like a little country. Yeah. I and I love jazz. I, for some reason, I just find any ideas. I sort of always liked it, but for some reason, I really like it. Now, rock, you want to add classic rock to that?

Yes, yes, I'm not saying, I'm just saying, um. Okay, it's a classic. I was literally gonna say, like Dad, Rock. Like, Billy Joel, Billy Joel, Bruce Springsteen.

Um, yeah. I'm pretty open-minded about people. Um, I have a sister, and she's a total music snob when I was growing up. If I didn't listen to her kind of music. I was like making that something like that, but I've been. I've tried to be open-minded, and so, you know, Sunday morning brunch classical music is really quite Pleasant.

I enjoy that again, a lot of jazz. I really like that, uh, I listen to college borderly. I listened to rap, uh, hip-hop, uh? Funk. I have a I have a pretty good, uh, in the days when we had CDs. I had a pretty good stuff up and a collection, but now I start used to have other options there as well.

Uh, what are my favorite television shows? I thought medical dramas medical dramas. Did you guys watch the pit? No, oh my goodness. Um, if you don't like blood and cats, don't watch it. But, um, it's like one of the most exciting shows that I've watched in in years. It's about an emergency scene.

Any very. I spent half of it like this, but it was great. Was your hands up? Yeah, house house. Um, like, in terms of older shows, like, I think a lot of, like dialogue, heavy, like, Frasier, or like, they're not from the side, oh yeah, I can't get it.

I've heard of them, uh, and I've watched them, um. Any other one. Yeah. Let's say hi, my new mother. When I came from like those like friends, I'm like, not good, uh, yeah, I, I know, these shows. I've watched a few episodes, they're not my thing, necessarily something like severance, Maybe Seinfeld.

Yep, enjoy that. Yeah, maybe Breaking Bad, Breaking Bad. I've only seen. About elements of it that I think it could be interesting at some point to binge on that, so I don't necessarily focus on medical dramas, but I find those interesting in the back there. Yeah, sorry. What's that?

Sopranos, yep, watch that. And then, you in front. Did you have? Oh yeah, that's the kind of thing I there's one that's like. Totally me, yeah. What's it? Okay, one more nature documentary. I do enjoy that. I'll tell you what it is Law and Order. And the original Auntie spin-offs.

In fact, they brought it back, but it kind of sucks relative to the other. Like, almost every I'm a bit of an involved, so to speak by that. I mean, I sleep about two hours a day, so but before I went to bed. I mean, I would watch an episode of lawnard, and I've seen him finding these episodes, and I love that show, so hopefully they get their act together and can make it as good as it was.

But that's the kind of thing, but I do like documentaries like movies, those kinds of things. I've watched some of these shows, but. Basically, I have a problem with commitment. Um, not that kind of thing, but in terms of, I can't be like on Wednesday night at eight o'clock.

Watching the same show. And I know we can watch things differently now than the old ways, but I have a hard time with that, I'll tell you when shall I love AGC? You guys watch America's Got Talent. I could watch that every night. I can watch a two-hour episode of that every single minute.

That's a good family hearing for anybody who's interested in those kind of things. She's better enough to really be worried about what's coming down the, you know, the next commercial kind of thing, uh, do I like sports. No pickleball. Interesting. There is something about person pressure. Yeah, hockey or baseball.

I feel like no cookers. Every people that I've talked to whenever they like, is what they always bring it up. And then, whenever they like, it's kind of, like, Andy, um, I do like sports. I played them, um, yeah, in the past, uh? I guess during covet, I dissected my aorta strange thing.

I died from it. I was caught in time, but it's changed my life just before I my surgeon. Just when I left the hospital, I said, well, I'd be able to exercise, he said, as long as you don't do anything strenuous. It's like, well, isn't that like, what exercise is tossing against sitting in my chair and using your remote.

Is that what I do do? And yeah, I've had to change, but I love tennis. Um, I love skiing. I was a basketball player in high school and part of University. So, I do like I, I wanted to play hockey. My dad would not take me to hockey, uh out to hockey.

For some reason, probably save me a lot, but um. But yeah, I would have loved to have done that. But yeah, I do. I, I enjoy watching more and more. I'm a total Jays fan now at least are very frustrated with legit, but I like watching more than those kinds of things and the Raptor just came out.

Uh, okay, uh, how old am I? Did anyone guess old? Okay. Sure. All right. I wrote down the 48 wow guys are just, so you know, I really don't give out bonus points. Uh, so I'm in my 60s. Yeah, so I've only got six few years left here, right?

Yeah, um, am I married? I think you're divorced. Okay, she says divorce, but in the long-term relationship. I was going to say no, because you just say you have part-time committing, but yeah. Honestly, um, yes. Ah, you guys don't go to the clubs very often.

Yeah, so I am married. And I have three kids, uh? I don't do blame. I have a review. I just don't feel it. I don't Pierce. I don't stamp myself. I don't, and I'm not. There's no judgment there. It's just my way. Sorry about that. But that's how I am because.

Um, I didn't do it for today's exercise. Um, so? What radio stations do I listen to?

Boom 97.3 what is it? Oh 97.3 7.3 these are just numbers.

Yeah, so basically that station's on in my car? I do listen to CBC if you guys are not in business. I highly recommend. I hope that's not too political in the statement. But I, I like that, um, radio station. And so, to get my news, that's typically where I live in New York.

I have to admit, I. Just surf when something comes up that I don't like, and I don't even know what station is on. I have. I think I mentioned I have three kids. I have a son, who's 33, and I have a daughter who's eight and a daughter who's 15, and so when you're in a car within the nine-year-old sorry, uh, and a 15 year old, you're listening to Todd Ford, yeah, he knows.

There's a lot of that going on in my in my car, too, um, okay. What else do you need to know about musical instruments? It's one of my favorite Jazz instruments, but I don't. Saxophone. Love that too. I played in band. Um, in high school, and everybody wanted to play the saxophone, right?

So, it was like a high value Target, and I was not lucky, but I'll see whether anybody gets it. It wasn't trumpet, but I do love the trumpet. Yeah, what's that goodbye guitar? I do. I'm a hack, but I, I do play it. I have this other thing. In addition to the secondary order of corporations.

And so your fingers don't necessarily move the way they used to. So I have moments, right? Piano piano? No, I, my parents spent a lot of money on piano lessons in total ways. Probably get sent me through college. The drums. No, not even really bad. Right, but it is kind of cool.

Yeah, um. Yeah, clarinet clarinet now! Maybe my most favorite spring incident trombone? That was my thing, uh am I, uh, Mac or PCC? You look a little bit like I get the beauty of math. Your name is exceptional, but as an academic, they don't support it. So, all my tech people or PC people.

So, basically, I had to make that conversion to that. So anyhow, that's what I do. Um, am I a vegetarian?

Um, I don't love animals, and I don't hate them. I just know that a lot of them are delicious. I ate a lot of, uh, different things. Um, okay, uh, but I tried in vegetarian because I do believe in a balanced diet and that you can get a lot of things from a lot of things, uh, but I do try to use more vegetarian and my son did it for a while.

Almost everybody, I hope I might have been anybody, but almost everybody I know is a long term vegan. It just seems to get sick eventually and see how something important. Am I an outdoor temperature? Yeah, that's a very observantage.

I do. I love it. Hey, we have this 17 and a half foot keplerk in it. But, as I age, a hotel room is so much more appealing than, uh, tension of rock in my back, so, but I do love it. I love painting. I love being out. Um, in danger.

Okay, so I don't know how many people have said 80 of the beginning confirmation was definitely right. Less than that Shockers? Um, so you can start a form infection system, so there's some degree of accuracy happens pretty quickly, right? That's kind of interesting, um? Okay, anyhow, um?

These kinds of things that I'm talking about now are a part of social psychology. Uh, which is what this course is about. Can anybody tell me what that, what the, what social psychology is all about or Define it for us?

Um, so she said the scientific study of how people think about influence and relate to one another based on the actual imagine implied presence is that it? Yeah, that's what I want you to indelibly etch by the end of this course. Because it is ultimately the definition, but it comes from a couple of different sources.

The one that I view, and there's two, you don't have to copy down these first two, but um, some social psychologists Define as a scientific study of how people think about influence and relate to one another. One of my colleagues, the University of Waterloos Spencer. And another Myers, um?

Sort of. Use this graduation. I like this one a little bit because it's like a clicking dirty definition whenever I'm coming up with these academic definitions of things, I want to encourage all of you to, like when you're defining a stereotype, know what their formal definition is, but think of it as a bias or an expectation so quicker sort of.

Definitions are helpful, but there's another thing that I like. And to add to this, and this is, It's the study of how individuals thoughts, feelings, and behaviors are influenced by the actual imagination and provide. Of other people. What does that mean the actual the imagine and implied presence?

Okay, but what about actual? What is actual? What is that actually? Yeah. Uh, in social norms.

Well, based on the actual imagine implied president, an actual presence of another elevations. Uh, that's what I mean by that versus and imagine. I don't know if you guys are like, because I love driving. I like going on road trips, those kinds of things. When I find myself. I get into this sort of Zen state and my my water, along with it's free.

I mean, I'm sure you guys have had this experience really driving, and you're on the 400 system. And then, next thing, you know, wow, I've just been driving for 30 minutes, and I don't remember one road sign, uh, you know, your mind's free to wander, but you may have been processing other things, and so I can get myself all the work document angry oversound by processing imagining the situations.

I can also resolve issues in those situations, so that would be more of that, whether going to imply.

They don't not hold. That you should wear this sort of jackets inside. Okay, okay, uh? It's related, but you, and then, yeah, okay, um, pretty much I would. I would assume that it would be like the unspoken. Rules are things that are like, meant to be done, like, you know, like people say.

It's, you should be wearing deodorant every day, or you know, stuff like that, or you should be specifically talking about the implied presence? Yeah. Sure, like some kind of suggestion. Like, so, here's the example. Yeah, you got cutting. It's just another word to suggest suggest, right? So, I don't know if you've ever had this experience.

I love my family. I like being around people, but there's times I like to spend on my own right? Like, if I can get an hour in the house by myself, I love meeting. Uh, where I'm not dealing with all sorts of other matters. I love that, and I'm coming home, you know.

At the end of the day, thinking, okay, I've got the house to myself for an hour, and you walk in the door and there's a bag, and it's like. So somebody's there, right? It's, I don't know whether the person's there, but they're complied decisions or so. Based on all of these things, this is rooted in something that a diabetic currently would have came up in and said so simple.

And yet, so profound, and that is that we act on the perceived rather than the actual, and I found the perceived rather than yeah, so you don't necessarily need somebody there, but it's more based in my perception of whatever it is. And is that important? It is kind of let me give you an example of how that can work.

How many people can you guys hang out for just a bit more. We got talking too much about other things, so I'm going to be keeping you just a little bit longer. But how many people here? I think that a d is a good grade. How many people expect to get a bean in this course?

Yeah, and did you think it's a good grade and you'd be happy with that? No time for modesty? Okay, if you think you gotta be the okay with that, you'd be good, okay. How many people feel if they got to be it wouldn't be a good thing? Okay, I'll be more of that than the other, uh, kind of thing, but isn't it interesting?

That from this seemingly objective entity of being. We can have different perceptions of what that means. And you can have different implications for whether you're happy, satisfied, or unhappy. Dissatisfied at the end of the year, what does it be? Does anybody know not 70 to 80 70 to 74.9?

Is a b plus a 75? So and and B is 70 to 70, so it's kind of objective. Um, how do you get that? Well, we're gonna go right here. It's a relatively objective thing, but some of you are going to get that grade at the end of this semester, and you're not going to be popular.

Makes you feel good. And the other ones are going to go and have a celebration, you know, and do whatever. And so we can have this seemingly objective, and uh, and our most of our theories are rooted in that idea of perceptions, which is really profound. Um, and uh, I might have some ideas about the way the world unfolds, and if.

You know, try to assess whether you think, like me, on these things. I'm probably not going to be very accurate in my prediction, but if I can find out the way you think about these things, the way you perceive these events, I have tremendous accuracy in understanding the way the world unfolds.

I just need to find out how you perceive it and don't use the objective truth to predict anything because people are going to see it differently, right? So any of all of this to suggest that our perceptions are extremely valuable, and so this definition here. Here is the one I want you to use.

It's the scientific study of how we think about influence and relate to one another based on actual imagine identified presence. Um, if you guys haven't gone there. Uh, as Christian, of course, on e-class. That's where I'll do all the communication. Of announcements. Um, I will provide slides for each lecture.

The slides are relevant relatively up to date. I reserve the right to change them even in the session, but just before I go inside often won't open those links until just before I come into the lectures, and they'll be available there. I don't provide news. I don't have notes, sorry, but these slides are there, but so I highly recommend that you get these slides.

You can make notes there that you need to definitely take notes. Um, okay. So, what does the course? What's it going to look like?

I'm not sure if I got okay. Here we go. Okay, there's a syllabus there. I think it's fairly accurate. Let me know if you spot anything, um. So, uh, we. Remember, make sure you go to the right e-class expected, right? I mean, I'm sure you'll get access to this one, but I do have two sections in this section C and section A.

You have to take this section if you're enrolled. In this section, we have two teaching assistants. They're down in the front row here. This is all repaired, you know, she's um. She's, uh, working towards her PhD in the social personality area, so it's not in addition to having an experimental social psychologist teaching us.

You have actually two Tas who are training to be social psychologists. Um, and so that's really good. I've worked with, uh, Aubrey, a fair bit. She's very knowledgeable on these topics. Um, she will have an office hour on Fridays at 9 00 a.m. Kind of, like, physical, or by appointment.

Okay, so we'll try if you can't make that time and reach out to one of the Tas, and hopefully they could set something up by Zoom or another face-to-face. Is your other ta and she's working with Amy Muse? She's the relationship scientist, and she is studying topics related to that.

She's in the PHD program, working to work in your PhD and social personality psychology again, very knowledgeable, particularly in relationship things they don't have to come to class. They've already done their Insight 2120 course so, but they will come for exams. And you'll, you can see them at their office hour if you want, so hers is going to get Tuesday at 1 pm or by appointment.

Okay, probably email is the best way to reach out to both of them to make contact if you want to. Okay, uh, there's, uh, the course is going to be offered on eclass. You can read about what it's all about. I don't even know when that is. Um, the textbook is social psychology, the Third Edition at digital update by Greenberg at all.

Um. Now, the way we're offering it is through something called d1d day one digital. I think everybody's opt into this. It costs a I think it's a proc. I use approximately a hundred dollars. I know we have to let you know how much it costs now, and I use approximately because I, I was even given a value of 109 something, but there's no tax apparently on that.

So, I think it's like a hundred dollars. You get it for four years. Part of that, is this thing called achieve, which has practice exams and things of that? Maybe you don't? We spend a lot of time scoping out achieve, but I think it's probably valuable. Um, what else can I tell you?

The course consists of three exams, two midterms, and one final exam. The two midterms are worth 30 percent of your final grade. They're just every exam is multiple choice and a short answer, no essay. So, you get a half mark for each correct answer. So, your first midterm exam is going to be based on a certain amount of information.

I'll go over that you get a half mark for each one, so 68, your second midterm 60 items. Your final exam is worth 40 of your final date. You have to write it to the past the course, so that means AE items on that one now, um. For the first exam, there's going to be lecture material, and uh, and chapters you'll process that write the exam.

Um, on the day that's specified, you get about 75 minutes to do it. It's ample time for everybody to write the exam. You put that information away, then you take the next section of the course and it'll section of the course and you'll get an exam 60 items based on just the middle material, just the lectures from that middle section, and just the chapters.

I didn't expect you to go back and relearn the information on the first section. The third section of the course. Um, which will undertaking the final exam includes the same thing, just mostly the material from that middle section in terms of chapters. Um, and the lecture is for a factor is a key.

10 percent of that 40 or one quarter of the exam will be cumulative, but only the lecture material. I don't expect you to go back and review the chapter from the first section, the chapter in the second section. I just expect you to know the lectures. Um, remember? Um, social psychology is how we think about.

Influence and how we relate to an investment definition and so, of course, breaks down into that. The first section is largely about how we think about our social cognition. Uh, and then the second is how we influence one another. Uh, things like, uh, and y'all will get into that, um.

Uh, but then the final section is how we relate. Okay, so those are sort of the three sections. Any questions about any of that?

Yeah, so I do. I, I'm not sure whether we'll do that or not. So, usually, what I do, is, is the exams start at the beginning of each class, and you have the two midterms are right in this room. Um, I feel that nobody's sort of ready to learn after an exam, which is too much.

So, I often will present a video where I'll just say you should check this out. Most of you can split out online, but the first one I will show you is possibly obedience, which is based on the Milgram experiments you probably learned about that in site 10 Japan, which have to do with, um.

Authority and? Thank you for each of that. Um, but uh, I'll talk more about that at the time. We'll see more record. Yeah, um. So on the e-process. As for the book for the textbook that, like, um?

Are you not sure? Does anybody else trying to do it? Has it worked? Uh, are we illegal? If you guys are able to do when you guys are probably set up, right? Did you make a note of that and? Okay, um, now. I don't offer me having sex.

So, this is how it works. I really expect you to comment right now. I have a plane ticket. Sorry, I'm not gonna, uh, you need to wait until you find out when using garbage is now, as well as the final examine, I don't even know. But what can you paying ticket until you make the final expenses and you're starting to crack down now.

The register's office as well for those things. Um, so um, if you do miss because of some medical issues like bereavement or something like that, I need documentation, but I offer one exam period on one day in January, and if you miss one exam, you write it. If there's three exams on that day for exam, the second exam, and the third example.

And if you qualify for that exam, you write it down. If you miss two, you'll write them back and back. If you miss three, you're ready, uh, back, but I think how the register's office is taking the third example, but that's how I am. If you are going? Are going to be.

Away, or are you miss? It is 48 hours. You need to send me an email the Tas email if they're going to be managing the bank that exams, so we all need to be, and you can compete what's called the missed exam. Um, and in there, you can stipulate what it is.

There's information there provide documentation for why that's the case, and just don't automatically think that it's going to happen. It has to be unjustifiable using the point is. Come to class. I understand that sometimes there are issues arise, and there is an mechanism to deal with that. But um, don't just think automatically, it's going to happen.

Um, anyhow, I would encourage you to go through that. It's kind of a lengthy to figure that out through the syllabus. Uh, oh. Also, in addition to the three exams, I offered two units. And those bonus points are for participating in two sanctioned in-class snakes. Uh, probably they take like 30 or 40 minutes each.

If you complete one, you get one percent if you complete, uh, the second one, you have one percent. These will be social psychological in nature, so I do like to give you this bonus point opportunity. I do it so you can see how, uh, social psychological research is that, more often than not, it's a graduate student for an undergraduate student doing an honors thesis.

Um, and uh, you can sort of see how they're doing that. It's often online. But it is conceivable that you get 102. It's, it's rare, but it happens. Okay, um? What else to tell you there, just if you scroll down, you're going to get the exam schedule.

Here. So, just to give you an idea?

Okay, just to go over there so you can see. For example, the first exam is going to be all the lecture materials, including today, until the lecture before the first exam. The first exam is going to be on October 1st, uh, it will be in class paper and pencil.

You need to bring your ID film dismiss that I don't need that. I'll just bring my driver's license. I'll just bring my. Health card that's not sufficient, and you should check out what you need to do on my social media. Uh, and you have to show with that. Um, and then the here's the various topics and the chapters will include one, two, four, five, three, six.

You can see the order here. Um, that's the order I want to talk about that stuff. Do I lecture on everything in the chapter? I know it's, I don't see the course as a regurgitation of what's in the textbook? I supplement the textbook with my lectures, so both are important, but that first exam is going to be based on lecture material as well as textbook.

Most of it's textbook, I would say 2/3 from the textbook and one third from the lecture material.

Um, don't underestimate how much? If you wait till the two night or two before, you're gonna get a shock. And you know, that's right, studying your first year, uh, but it's it's a lot, so I would encourage you to start now. Probably mostly are taking five courses, so it's this time spot.

So, keep that in mind when you're preparing, and I would recommend that you come. Uh, so that's multiplied two more times right through the middle section in the final section. Any questions about any of that? They don't have time percent of one to six lectures as a community. No, no.

So, the first exam is going to be based on this material, file it away. The next section of the course is going to be on just the chapter from the middle section and just the lectures from the middle section. Then you're going to file that away, and then you're going to learn the final set of chapters and lectures, but the final exam is going to be largely on that third final section, but there is a cumulative component, but only the lecture material.

So what I do is I typically go back to the first lecture, and I generate two items next one, two items, and so on. You get that number for emails. Do you want all the TV and feelings? It's helpful if I if they need to be an agency. The email is the best way to my office hour is Wednesday today at 10, 30, or by agreement.

Um, I can do Zoom Marissa a lot of times. Issues can be done. So, let's start with that. If we Zoom is a some flexibility, but I'll also be in my office in my office. Sorry, this will follow. Do you want, uh, the header, our horsepower? Sure, it's helpful.

We have got two sections. Yeah, that's what I think so. I need any details. I mean, you, you'd be surprised. I get, hey, you, hey, uh, I got. I had this issue, and it's like, I assume that I know who the student is, what more? Yeah, I got a lot of students, um, going on.

So, give me Jr, and, uh. Any other questions about Indiana? Um, yeah.

I, if there's something called achieve as well, that comes part of that. Uh, it's got like practice quizzes and other information. I don't go through that, but I think the supplements is very powerful. Um, people have asked, can I use it earlier version? I don't write what the exams my lectures and everything are based on this textbook, so, if you use something different than that, maybe run a risk.

People, you said, what about another? And getting the right information. So I, this is where the information is. I recommend you go there to get that, uh, to study and do all those things I know. It's expensive to do these things, but I was just talking to Aubrey Builders earlier when I was an undergraduate when there was dinosaur running around, my textbooks were a hundred bucks a minute, so that's pretty good.

I mean, the hard cover went just formata. A lot of them are two fifty three hundred bucks, so it's probably my advice.

Okay, and the other side. Now, somebody's asked. There's a couple of people who reached out about note takers if anybody's interested in doing that. I'm not sure if it's a voluntary thing, I think it's probably unpaid. You can reach out as voluntary. Yeah, so if anybody's interested in doing that, what a great thing talk about evidence.

And it also been very helpful to people, so anybody's willing to participate in that you can reach out to the United States. Information on them. Leaders think of anything else. Um, I hope that our discussion happens like today, that it's respectful by even if people say things that maybe you might bring John or whatever.

I don't think anybody in this class will do that, but I always expect them to be mutual respect. The other thing is, um, remember, this is site 2122 a. It's on dinner theater. We have our break. I don't mind up bringing coming back, try not to bring back food.

Yes, the whole room has to sort of a job. It's mostly for my, um. You know, Afghanistan, um, okay? Another question if I have a scared jobs, please?

Well, I'm gonna try in. I, I don't know what's going on there, uh, I gotta email the book wrap and find out why I'm not getting access to that, so I'll do that as soon as I go back to my office right now. Then it will send out, and it's mean class announcement.

Are you guys still getting like an error code? Where, like it says, that you have to create an account I have that accessible, but this is also asking for the course. ID, yeah.

That's what they were saying here, so I don't know why that's happening. I'm gonna have to go back now to talk to the warcraft. Yeah, yeah, good, so I might, yeah, be awesome. Seeing you guys on that Communications and I'll send out right now, you know, um, I'm just wondering, because I know, yeah, I have a video, too.

So, I'm wondering, if is, that, is the exam going to be like the examiner of the video later. Yeah, during the class. Yeah, so if I wanted to like, for example, book with, like the exam Center, or something like that, yeah, how, like, I guess, because I would get time and a half.

For example, it's like I can just watch the video later. Yeah, great. Yeah, yeah, yeah, so that's how I would either make it available. Or, and I'm not even sure whether I'm going to show it, okay. So, just so you know. Yeah, yeah, for sure. So, yeah. Thinking about that, get in touch with me.

Like, I'm gonna get a document myself for sure. Yeah, thanks.

So, actually, I took a picture of your attention here.

Yeah, I can take it off right now.

I, I just. I'm just aware of everyone else.

Tell me.

Well, I guess.

Yo hello! You doing man, how's your summer right? Awesome! I missed you. It is. Down my job to make sure you sign in gotcha. I see, I'll catch all. I'm gonna go pee guys. No, no fried rice. This time, I'm switching it up.