A couple questions, too. But first, is that anyone see this Canada flag thing for first year? The sensational perception everything? No, okay, so this talks is about, like, grow-based Behavior. Right, and last week, if you were? Uh, you would have seen a little bit of me chatting about what the future is, and then you would have saw kind of the end of graduate school.

So kind of jumped you into the future. In terms of like where you could get out if you were in graduate school, I think there was 23 or 25 or 17 people last week when I asked one go to grad school. It was something like a quarter of the glass, right?

So, last week, you saw three people give presentations correct. Remember what that was on? Yeah, so. So, like I said, um. Those people have died undergrad and all three of them are finished. Their masters rolling into their phds? Right, because they all started September 2023. And two of? Finish, their Masters, and one is.

So, what I wanted to do? I brought paper to do a quiz. Right. If you wanted to do this, um, it's super easy. All I want you to do is talk about what you heard last week. It's really to give me feedback if you want me to Market on the other side of the page.

Just write your student number and your name. Right, and it'll count as a quiz. I'm super easy at marketing quiz. I don't expect you to know anything. Because you only did it first year? Right, and this is kind of a practice of what could happen in a class. Right?

So I'd like to try this if that's okay. I know people have some people have comedies we've talked about this. Um, you can do it, and it doesn't happen. Just really, so I can get a feel if that's a useful thing for you, right? And so, before we do this, what I'd like you to all do is, while I'm passing out paper.

Everyone stare at this hand of leg on the screen. Stare at it for, like, a minute. Right, and then move your eyes to like one part of the. Of the wall here where she's white. Okay.

And don't look at me as I'm passing around paper. And if you don't have a pen or a writing utensil, I'll give you one. I brought some. Don't look at me. Look at the screen. Look at the center of the Canada Maple Leaf like, so try not to move your eyes.

I should have put a DOT there.

And the cool thing is. So right now, you guys are adapting your your retina. To light colors. And what's super cool about it? Is that? In a few minutes, you're going to see it after effect. And the idea this after effect. Is that it? Is your brain and brain on fatigue or tired or?

Okay, so whenever you think now, look at part of the white screen and what you see. Just shout out when you see? If you see anything? A Red Canadian flag. I got one up here, or anyone else? So you're rent Canadian flag when they look at the white part of the wall there?

Anyone see that? So, it's going to be. It's going to be different, because if you move your eyes many times, you're imagining your retina. You're adapters, it occurs, and the lights changes. If you look, if you don't want to see everything, look at it all over the Spain, and you'll just see your regular.

Right? If you stare at the center at one point or at one point in a little like? Fires on the leaf. Scary ads for a minute or two, and then look at part of the white wall. After that. Yeah, so the slide after image is perfectly normal. It's different for different people in the in the world right here, so.

A student here right at the front. Don't look at me, she's got the best view of the screen because her the image on her retina is really big compared to someone way at the back. Right, and you know, so far. So this is great. Keep trying it while I'm passing these out.

If you want me to know who you're writing everything when? Filling out these sheets. Uh, her name is two number on the back.

So? Anyone who's seen a bit of reddish. Why do you think that is? What do you think is happening in your brains?

This is the first place I'm Jewish in first session. Since open. Since 2006. And what's cool about it? And, uh, what's cool about it is, so you're gonna write whatever you think of, you know, when I give you the question up here? And you have five minutes, ten minutes, max.

Give me the sheet of paper, and then you're gonna get in a little group. Amongst you are people here. In a little group, and then you guys come up with the best answer. And this kind of group work. It is a nice way to put stuff damage.

And all these things have happened and hard, but Very very, I just died.

Does everyone have a sheet of paper if you don't? Oh yeah, anyone need a writing essential because they know I grabbed a whole bunch of stuff in the lab this morning?

And they'll have chalk up there.

Hey, he needed something the right way.

We got rock paper off the dress today. Oh yeah, go grab it.

Got one more. Okay, so right, your student number and name on one side? So, on the other side, I'm going to give you a question in a minute when I walk up to the charcoal.

Okay, so then what I like to do when I Mark these? Is like that? I like, not that I know anyone's name that because when you go someone's name. Um, there's a bias, right? So, last week, you saw, we, we showed you guys a little bit of the work we've been doing for the last 10 years in the lab.

And imagine if I was biased in my perception? So, I think, like, say, I wasn't dancing? Right, and as a dancer, I have this bias. Okay, I think the answer shouldn't hear everything. Right. So, if I see a person with Parkinson's and I do a clinical test at the start of the class before they dance, and then I administer this after class, and I know it's after class.

There could be a bias when I'm barking, scoring their border movements. Right, and what's in the literature that you can see that you can imagine? This is what's happened. A lot of the experiments have done their experiments where the medical doctor or the person doing the testing after on your story.

Could be nice because they know us after class. So, what we did in our studies back when we first started them is we videotaped the the little test? Right? So say you guys were students in the lab were all trained to do this clinical test because there's five Parkinson's disease rating scale.

You go to the classes, the dance classes all over in Argentina. It's not going to have money to send you that Argentina anymore, but you can go to Argentina. You go to New York. You go to, like, Montreal, and you do these tests, like one of you, videotapes it, and one of you like ministers.

And then, when we give it to you, people in the lab to score it. It's blinded, you don't know if it's before class or after class. Right, and we make sure the experimenters are in the video. They don't say, oh, remember, in your class, you did this. Right, there's no thing about how the class went.

All they see is a name tag on a person and the score and the video and they score it right and then video. It's super simple. I can show it to you later. Yeah, the person does this 10 times the person does this 10 times pretty good. This ten times 10 times is through instructions.

And it's super simple to score anyone in here can do it. All you do is belong to this movement to start a society web page get approved through training, and you get a certificate, and that's what everyone laughed at. And whatever one or two of you emailed, saying, how do I volunteer?

Just email me, like lady dick, to the TA. Um, okay, so? What should I ask you guys? So, usually these questions will be based on what we did last week or what we should know this week. I'm not going to draw a grain on the on the wall and say, label all these things because I don't expect you to remember that I'm talking, even though you may know.

Um, let's do. Okay, so.

How can gas?

Z for it, so disease is the parenthesis. And burden is all the things that happen in the disease. Okay, you guys have two minutes or five minutes. Just jot down anything you want. You need a better, um, you know, a paper paper, okay?

2.4 maybe essay form? You can draw pictures whatever you want. But on the other side, put your name and suit number. On the side, we're writing stuff related to the quiz. Don't put any. Because then, I don't know who it is. And then, I can't be biased when I write.

And of course, close your computers and and stuff because, as I don't know. Paper.

Just do this.

Okay, two more minutes guys.

Okay, one minute left guys.

Okay, so the place is down, so make sure your name and student number are on the other side of the paper. Your answer is on the left side, and if you can pass your sheets down this way, it's easier for you to collect. And then what we're going to do.

Next is two or three or four people around you and all this sheet of paper. We're going to right now. And if your best answer to that that we'll go over?

I find myself and find a giraffes. So, I don't want to bias my old answers. So, next?

Like?

One internet group that just do your best. She can do whatever he wants. Google search and see what's here?

So, now we're going to do. Same thing on that end. On the back side, here's your day and student number as a group will have new sheet, and she had these three people, so you're gonna began as many as you want. And three, my name is your number of sheets.

Yeah, let's group us, uh, let's group up us far in the front, so it just makes it easier.

And yes.

Yeah, like the doping up. This is how that it helps to potentially bypass the regions that like, like, damage to my transport sheets, the yellow sheets guys past the yellow sheets.

Okay, yeah, no worries yet. I don't know your name yet anyway, so? So guys, can I get those yellow sheets? Thank you! Oh, yours is here. Thank you! Yeah, I'll I hope to learn everything. I like, now I see a student like three years down the road. Remember the name walking down, like in the very hall, and I'll say, hey, Sam, and they're like, what?

I know, my name, like, like I taught, you remember? And it's good for migraine. So, you're saying, continue? Oh yeah, which is that pretty much just pilot what? What age guys for group hey for group? So I got a question, um, basic conversations. I think it was all three weeks.

Yeah, yeah. It's file basis.

We're saying by the new area. Yeah.

At home. Yeah, but um.

There were nuns with Alzheimer's, but they were able and a lot of it was really like food costs and general problems as well. With social studies you can help like they want, but um, play something else sort of like Tyler, Michael. Yes, yes.

Yep, I, I think I took that point look. The last point I was a social asking a postman asking, so especially what I was saying about the the substantial I press that it was like damaged to that region, basically like hinders like the transfer of signals to work with.

Yeah, tax and Remy and the dance and and involves all of his kids, uh?

The water provide increased stimulation in his sensory core Seasons. Thalamus, which counters the motivation from homeowners. I'm definitely right now. Yeah.

It's technically like friend requires in a second here. But yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, oh yeah. Uh, if bypasses the inhibition. Is that what it is? It. Yeah, it's this.

Was this a second study? Did they actually find that one? I think so, he says, and they were talking so fast. I don't care. Go details down the processing. I'm just gonna put it down.

Good for? Foreign.

Mr question.

Sorry, sorry. Handwritings, you know? Or it's like a four-year-old?

This is barely started to already feel behind, though it's just no things going out. They're just so like, happy, and like being able to do something like, here's one concept. Here's another concept. Here's another concept. It's like, before you eat, no one understand where they've done something else. What song is sorry?

It's not really important. It's like psychology and girls science, you know, real life is so cool and psychology and the prices of like we build more jobs. Uh, oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, thank you. Sorry.

Yeah, it's Dory.

Now is if you know, in a minute or two, you guys like, close up your little groups. In an interview, I like to, like, hang it up on the wall here. All right, so I'll give you guys one or two minutes to finish off your group, uh meeting or chatting.

And then let's take it up on the board because certain groups will pick up things and certain will not so, and this is for me. So, the the reason I'm doing this is because I don't know the answer to this question. Right, there's lots of ideas in the world.

If you read that way, you see them. You saw some last week, but there's no correct answer. Okay, so, so this is a nice exercise for me as well as I learned from you guys, so I'll give you guys another minute or two, and then we'll and.

Are you like in Baltimore labs?

It's hard, like I, I sort of like made a point to like seek their family in first year. And then, like, I just sort of like found a position like, like, do testing for, like, ercp students and stuff like that, just like comparing, you know, performance between older and yeah, it's cool, which makes it hard to like make connections with your professors.

I'm just like I got lucky. I, you know, stay up like, you know, as like a list of labs and stuff like that. I like got lucky. I just like went to someone like went and looked at all these Labs. You know, found one that I thought their research was interesting, contacted the head of the lab.

It turned out to be incredibly lovely woman, like, you know, basically like helped me through this process, and like taught me so much, and I got a recommendation from a grad student in her lab for this other lab. I don't know. It's just like it's all about, like connections, which I think are, like, so hard to make when.

It's like, yeah.

But his research sounds really interesting.

So, like, were you able to get like the other Mark from this class, drop from your transcript yes, um?

All right, so, uh?

All right. So, in terms of disease burden for Parkinson's, let's talk down some things. So, what is some of the things that happened? Okay, so remember? Everyone else?

Neurons project yesterday, not me.

And she said that maybe the people's targeted? Right, but that's in our hands. We could be biased our cool people that have been super. Like, successful technical disease. So, this is an idea that we're putting out into the world. That if you dance weekly for 7 years or 6 years almost?

Your participation can get back. The idea that would be replicate this and never hurt yourself. Imagine we had flowers in the same Pakistan. I'm thinking of doing a project in Pakistani related to dance for long term and in this project it fit replicates in six years from now that the people have lower cognitive scores and scars, and those scores got a little better.

Then, we know that, oh, there is some active ingredient, but we don't know where. So, what else happens in the disease? Should we stay right here too late? Sparkinson's have a cure, no cure. Right. So if you get it, I probably around the age of, uh, onset, probably around the mid 50s, is the onset of the 50s now.

And, uh, so that's kind of disease burden. There's lots of other things. What did Stark's Parkinson's disease? So, in me? If I, if my family and I were prone to something, I might have a higher chance of getting hurt. So, there's a study done in. Somewhere in the north, like near Sweden, and it's steady down somewhere in Taiwan or Korea, where they followed their whole Nationwide for War over 20 years.

And they found two things anxiety and depression. If people have that their incidence of getting Parkinson's Italian? So, it tells us something about that circuit. Modifies disease, onset right, and the third thing is sleep. If you have very good sleep. The chances you're not going to get the disease, even if you have it in you to happen and trigger.

Um, if you have carelessly. Your burden might be higher. Okay, so that's kind of like even lots of other things, right? You can imagine all the many things that we saw you saw last week. So now when we talk about doing something with them. Right, music, dance, social whatever happens in a dance class.

Right. What do you think is happening that helps the people? What do you think is the main ingredient? I saw some cool things here. Right social engagement? Social. Helped with impression.

What happens in the disease is if the person gets it, they might have it for five six years. They can't work anymore. So they have to pay for retire or do whatever their job. Career allows. Right, they wind down their career, and then we're back home. They're lonely, especially if they're old, and they don't have.

Kids or a family or partner? Right, so they could be compressed alone. They have loneliness. Right, and so, one thing the social engagement does. Is, it gives them a pure root that's. People have the disease. The caregivers are there, and it becomes a beautiful Community, at least. What I've seen in my head in Toronto and in New York.

All right. So, what else could happen in the dance class that might be useful?

Okay, so this, so I'm going to put this on this side. Uh, because this is. Speculated. Or heavy lost his eyes. And I don't know if you guys heard that at the other side of the room, what she said. So, she said. Neurotransmitters and endorphins can be released because of the glass.

Right, but there's no measure. Like, I can't say I'm going to bring this tool for the dance class and put it in the middle of the room. I'm going to measure everyone's neurotransmitters. Before class, and then after class. I wish there was a super cool. There isn't right now.

Maybe it's a cool Tech that's being built. That could do this, but so his door fans. And neurotransmitters are still paint. And so you see this online all the time. Right, like, do this, and you'll get more dopamine release. You get hit a little more signal. That's all speculated.

And based on animal research, right? So, there might be an animal researcher that has a little gadget they can put in the brain of an animal, while the animal's doing a task the task could be something very simple, where the animals like sitting. At a care. And there's like a lever here.

Right, and the animals training. And if there's a light that flashes, it reaches for the woman. Right, and because it reaches for the lever, it gets a use reward in itself. When it gets to juice reward, they can see what's happening at all those times in the brain, where they put their electrode.

They can go to a warboard area like Metrotechnical nucleus. You can stick the electrode in there, and they can measure what's happening in that space of the brain. We can't do that in humans yet. The animal research figure. The benders are being speculation. How does this translate to a dance class?

Right, we know that it's happening, but we don't know for sure. All right, so that's that's why I put it under this section here. Speculated hypothesis. Or anything else? I understand help these people. Yeah.

Yeah, did you guys turn that at the back? Okay, so it helps with their fine motor skill. Right, and that's holding through, and we can measure that. And we have mentioned that people have made that all in the world. Find motor skills.

Okay, anything else? Yeah, this was like a hypothesis, but that like it basically like bypasses like the neural signals that are like stopped by the damaged striata. Yeah, and. Like, basically like relay them to the motor cortex and like, like. But give the movement back. Yeah, yeah, so, so, did you guys hear that at the back there?

So, the idea? What was your name Jay? The idea, Jay suggested, is that? Um, the areas that are damaged, so you heard that last week basal ganglia circuitry. Maybe there's circuits. Other than that, that are bypassing and getting stronger. To counteract the disease. And this is a great hypothesis when I first like started in this world of Dancing with Parkinson's and seeing their brains.

Uh, we started to do that. And so, I'm going to put that somewhere in here, because we're close to answering the question. Bypassing disease. Surface.

But we don't have enough proof yet, and so we're the only group in the world doing this. We do EEG before and after class, so all the measures you saw we did easy before and after class. We put the people in the scanner here in 2013 to 14 to look at it where their brain is doing.

You saw some of that. Uh, anything else? Okay, so this is kind of an idea. So, so now, let's imagine. And what's the? What's the disease that has the biggest burden in our society right now? So broody means like? If your parents or your grandparents have it, they have to be hospitalized.

It's going to cost you taxpayers if you have a job more money to take care of. Yeah. It's a financial idea. Let's put these up here.

And we're going to talk a little bit about it. I don't know a lot about it. I wrote one paper about it years ago. Yeah, I've been getting Paul Zimbers Alzheimer's disemetery. Yeah, anyone else would be able to say that one. Okay.

Uh, anything else? Yeah.

Anyone else?

Anyone else the doctor?

Anything else, guys? Yeah, the purchases. Yeah, let's see one two. I just talked about that this morning with. At the cafe. Anything else, guys? So these are all great. Yeah, which one, hepatitis, yeah? Very close to eviction.

Anyone else? So, so these are all awesome. So my next question is? Can some sort of narrow? Well, we call this neuro rehab, or, or some sort of treatment. Right. So I'm just gonna put a check mark. So, I don't think anyone's done anything like this dance for diabetes.

Yeah. It's probably a great idea, but I don't think I've ever seen a paper on that. These will have done it for cancer. People have for sure. Done it for dementia at Alzheimer's. People have done it for this. This is actually how dance movement therapy started in the U.S?

I would say 55 years ago or longer. It was dancers who started to go into psychiatric hospitals. And try to dance with the people who have the biggest problems. Because they would answer if they wanted to do something else. They're retiring, they're older, they're not dancing on stage anymore, and they thought they could help, so they created this idea.

They got proved to be. Psychotherapist. So the recycle therapists and Cancers, and they started a world called dance with her. And so it's all real world. It's done for a lot of things. Uh, addiction, I know it's for. And I don't know if here. If it's been done, but it should be.

Okay, so this is kind of. Uh, is this exercise okay to wake you guys up? Because I didn't want to just start talking about this like this all day. I thought this would be fun. So, um, should we take a little like break, like 10 minute break, and then start at 9, 30, the with the slides that I have prepared.

Let's start at 9 30.